INTERNATIONAL COURT OF ARBITRATION OF THE
INTERNATIONAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE

ICC CASE NO. 26834/HTG

IN THE MATTER OF AN ARBITRATION BETWEEN

SOJITZ- L&T CONSORTIUM CLAIMANT
-AND-

DEDICATED FREIGHT CORRIDOR

CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED RESPONDENT

REPLY EVIDENCE BY WAY OF AFFIDAVIT OF
KRISHNA KUMAR R.

[ Krishna Kumar R aged about 58 years, son of Shri K.R. Kurup (late) working

sen & Toubro Limited, having its office at D-236, SDC Monarch, 4th Floor
*
sor Circle, Hanuman Nagar, Vaishali Nagar, Jaipur-302021, do

fj polemnly affirm and declare as under:

say ft
< eS. is my Reply Witness Statement in the present arbitration. This

Witness Statement is in furtherance of my Witness Statement dated 7 July
2023.

2. Save where I indicate to the contrary, the facts and matters contained in
this Reply Witness Statement are within my own knowledge. Where the
facts are not within my own knowledge, I have identified my sources of
information and/ or belief. I have refreshed my memory by looking at

documents relevant to the events I describe below.

ATTESTED

Cc
TARY PUBLi
Pres (RAJ) IND?

HANG 00238 0 eng TT


3. By way of my present affidavit, I am responding to multiple
Respondent's Witness Statements [RW-1 to RW-4 have been collectively
referred to as “RWS”]. Since some of the issues are common to all the
Respondent's Witness Statements, I have first dealt with those in Chapter

A of my present affidavit.

4. I have dealt with specific statements and allegations made by the each of [ |
the Respondent's Witnesses by setting out references of the relevant para \ ms
number of the said witness. For example, I have herein referred to 5

paragraph number 1 of Witness Statement of Mr. Anurag Sharma as Para
Y/RW-1.

rever possible, I have also referred to the facts and statements
ady, set out in the Statement of Claim (“SOC”), Statement of Defence

2 aah
“SOD"%) and Rejoinder filed in the present case. By way of example,

- Paragraph “1” of Rejoinder has been referred to as Para 1/Rejoinder.

6 I reiterate that being aware of the facts and circumstances of the present
case - based on both my personal knowledge and records maintained by
SLT in the ordinary course of business and made available to me in
normal course of my duties with SLT, I am competent to depose on behalf

of SLT.

7. I clarify that none of the allegations or statements by RW-1 to RW-4 are
admitted.

Part 1- General:

A. Statements in respect of technical competence of L&T:


3

8. Larsen ‘& Toubro Ltd, commonly known as L&T, is ah Indian
multinational conglomerate with business interests in engineering,
construction, manufacturing, technology and financial services. The
company is counted among the world's top most construction

companies.

L&T Construction (one of the division of L&T) is among the world's top
15 construction contractors. The business of L&T Construction involves
the construction major civil infrastructure works under few sub verticals

of L&T construction namely Buildings and Factories, Heavy Civil

Infrastructure, Railways, Transportation Infrastructure, Power
transmission and Distribution Infrastructure, Water and Effluent
Treatment plants and Minerals and Metal , Smart Work etc. L&T execute
projects across the entire spectrum of infrastructure projects on a turnkey
basis, with single-source responsibility, adopting innovative design

engineering, the latest construction techniques and a global supply chain.

ss? Digialization, mechanization and the ability to mobilise large, skilled
ae
Wy o* crews
Sa +) b, |

w ll fd

QA ] “4 250 Global Contractors has been annexed herewith and marked as
~ Exhibit CW-1/13.

enable us to meet stringent deadlines and rigorous standards and

to speed and scale. Printout of Engineer News Record (“ENR”)

3

10. L&T's interalia undertakes projects in the areas of Airports, hydel power,
tunnels, nuclear power, special bridges, metros, ports, harbours, state-of-
art Hospitals, government and private office complex, factories, large
power plants and transmission system, automation system and defence
installations etc. L&T has been executed large and complex mega projects

in India, South Asia, Middle-east, Africa etc.

~ 4 AUG 2023

4

11. _Inits Railway business vertical, L&T has established itself as a full range
master integrator offering unique turnkey solutions for all types of
projects in the rail and urban transit sector. L&T has extensive experience
in engineering, procurement, construction encompassing design, La ;

ys.
engineering, supply, project planning, quality control and field executién- /
gin g, supply, project p g, quality Pa;

i

for railway projects. L&T has extensive project manage mu

competencies, new technologies and mechanized construction method$;

and with this L&T has been contributing to meet the growing demands *
of the railways sector. Over last few years L&T has introduced several

pioneering techniques in execution large railway projects.

12. In addition to CTP-1&2, L&T is also involved in the following projects
of Respondent:

Project Description

Design and Construction of Civil, Buildings and Trackwork's
for Double line Railway involving Formation in
Embankment/ Cuttings, Bridges, Structures, Buildings,
Ballast on Formation, Track works including Testing and
Commissioning on Design - Build Lumpsum Price basis for
Rewari - Iqbalgarh Section of Western Dedicated Freight
Corridor - Phase 1

Design, Supply, Installation, Testing and Commissioning of
2x25kV Overhead Equipment’s, Traction Sub-stations,
Auxiliary Stations, Switching Stations, Auto Transformer
Stations and SCADA System on Design-Build Lump Sum
Price Basis for (Rewari-Makarpura (Vadodra) Section of
Western Dedicated Freight Corridor - Phase 1

EMP4

Design, Supply, Construction, Installation, Testing and
Commissioning of 2x25kV, 50Hz, AC Traction Electrification,
E&M and Associated works of Double Track Railway lines on
a Design Build Lump Sum Basis for Mughalsarai - New
Bhaupur Section of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor

CP 204

Design and Construction of Civil, Structures and Track
Works, involving Formation in Embankments / Cuttings,


Project Description

Ballast on Formation, Track Works, Bridges, Structures,
Buildings, Yards, Integration with Indian Railways’ existing
Railway System and Testing & Commissioning on Design-
Build Lump Sum Basis for Khurja - Pilkhani Section
(Approximate 222 route km of single line) of Eastern
Dedicated Freight Corridor. Contract Package - 303

¥

<
a

Design, Supply, Installation, Testing and Commissioning of
2x25kV Overhead Equipment’s, Traction Sub-stations,
Auxiliary Stations, Switching Stations, Auto Transformer
Stations and SCADA System on Design-Build Lump Sum
Price Basis for JNPT — Makarpura (Vadodara) Section
(Approx. 422 kms) of Western Dedicated Freight Corridor
(Phase-2)

Design and Construction of Signal and Telecom Works for
Double Line Railway for JNPT - Vadodara Section (Approx.
422 KM) including Testing and Commissioning on Design-
Build Lump Sum Price Basis of Western Dedicated Freight
Corridor (Phase-2)

Design and Construction of Civil, Building and Track Works
for Double Line Railway involving Formation in
Embankments / Cuttings, Bridges, Structures (excluding
Civil Works for Bridges and Formation in Embanknient/
Cutting and Structures in Approaches for 150M length from
Abutments on both sides of the Bridges across rivers Mahi
and Sabarmati), Buildings, Ballast on Formation, Track Work
(including Ballast and Track Works on Bridges and
Formation of Approaches for 150M length from Abutments
on both sides of the Bridges across rivers Mahi and
Sabarmati) including Testing and Commissioning on Design-
Build Lump Sum Price Basis for Iqbalgarh - Vadodara Section
of Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (Phase-1) (Civil,
Building & Track Works Contract Package - 3

CTP 3R

Integrated Contract Package Of Design And Construction of
Civil, Building And Track Works For Double Line Railway
Involving Formation In Embankments/ Cuttings, Bridges,
Structures, Buildings, Ballast on Formation And Track
Works, Design, Supply And Installation Of 2X25 Kv Traction
Power Supply System, Traction Sub-Stations, Auxiliary
Stations, Switching Stations, Auto Transformer Stations And


B.

13.

16.

Description

Scada System And Design And Construction Of Signal And
Telecom Works For Double Line Railway Involving Train

Detection System, Electronic Interlocking In Stations, Block

(185), Train Monitoring & Diagnostic System (Tms), Dispatchy

Gsm(R) System, Digital Electronic Exchange System And

On Design-Build Lump Sum Price Basis For Rewari - Dadri
Section Of Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (Phase-2)

Isolated instances of alleged delay:

The WS of RW-1 to RW-4 sets out instances of isolated delay events
allegedly caused by the Claimant. I state that the allegations of isolated
instances of delay are applied globally based on selective facts: The same
are misleading because they neither consider other relevant facts nor

give a complete picture.

a Alps upport of such statements, Respondent ‘Witnesses have made

Nis which again, do not provide a complete or accurate picture and

ith a view to somehow allege delay on

Wherever possible, I have set out relevant facts, to correct the misleading
statements made by RWS. In addition, I have also referred to and relied
upon the earlier statements and/or analysis filed along with SOC and

Rejoinder.

I do not admit interpretations advanced by any of RWS on contractual

matters.

Proving With Axle Counters, Intermediate Block Signalling |,”

Telephone System, Fiber Optic Communication System, |

Master Clock System Including Testing And Commissioning, k


17. I state that these isolated instances of alleged SLT delays set out in the
RWS do not in any manner prove that the Claimant was in concurrent

critical delay with the delays to the agreed EOT of 608 days.

18. Without prejudice to the above statement, I have dealt with the same in

my present Statement

The Respondent has erroneously asserted that there were delays to the

CCP caused by the Claimant or that the alleged Claimant's delays were

concurrent to the other delay events and MS3 is delayed due to such
delays of Claimant. The said assertions are false, an afterthought, and

denied. The Respondent has neither explained nor set out how such

Claimant's delays are critical or impacting the revised Time for

‘ion concurrently as any such alleged delay which were

ncurréiit to the other delay events, much less evidenced or proved that

aniy such alleged delay occurred at any time over the period upto 31

SS _*Auguét 2016,

C. RW-2’s statements regarding CTP-2 being more challenging than CTP-1
does not determine completion of track skeleton work:

20. I state that the distinction now sought to be created by RW-2 between
CTP-1 and CTP-2 has no basis for the current dispute. In support thereof,
RW-2 has made generic statements [Para 28-34/RW-2] that CTP-2 was a
relatively longer stretch or has more quantum of work or was more
challenging than CTP-1 and that there are some subsections of CTP-2
that are more complicated than sections in CTP-1. The said fact does not
determine what is critical to completion of track skeleton work of the
Project / MS-3,


21. It is evident from the Bid document issued on 30 June 2012 ! that the
Project in question is for Civil, Building and Track Works combined package
CTP-1 and CTP-2 for Rewari to Iqbalgarh section of WDEC. The Claimant

had also bid for Contract as a combined package.

22. The Contract is governed by completion of Track skeleton by a. ‘specific

date for the interfacing Contractor to commence Electrical and sling ;
work and 100% completion of Civil and Track work following; a

completion of the Electrical and Signalling work.

93, There are no specific dates in the Contract for completion of CTP-1 and
CTP-2. The time for completion of Contract is divided into 5 milestones.

ws % i AR
Ry JPMS S-1 and MS-3 is relevant to the Track Skeleton of specified section viz

, | ASI HERA
tg advocela
va rere Rah) : ‘ _

4 — 3). MS 9 and MS-4 is relevant to completion of Civil and Track work of

\
\Bhi gega to Rewari (MS-1) and Iqbalgarh to Rewari- whole section (MS-
* “the MS-1 and MS-3 section. MS-5 is relevant to overall completion/
“taking over. The activities involved in the portion of work for which this
claim is pertinent is MS3 portion of the work from Bhagega — Iqbalgarh
is submitted in Exhibit C- 61

24, Two Project offices were established by the Respondent for CTP-1 and
CTP-2 for monitoring of progress of the Project. Therefore, as directed
by the Respondent, reporting was done based on the above
arrangements. However, Respondent's administrative setup created for
monitoring of the progress of the project does not have any relevance to
the Time for Completion being linked to achievement of milestones pre-

fixed by the Respondent in the Contract.

AT TT STeED

1 Exhibit C-1 ; Vol CD-1

AR puBLc
NOTA" Ops PN

JAIPUR - ro ~) 5


25.

9

I further state that it makes no difference to completion of track skeleton
work whether there were two, four or 10 site offices or if invoices being
submitted were bifurcated for CTP-1 and CTP-2. This is one project, the
Track skeleton of which was to be completed with one NTC and costs
are associated with the completion of the Project. CCP is formulated
based on one NTC and EOT Determination is based on the CCP. The
understanding of the parties was that Project is one (designated as
combined package) and hence, there was only one Engineer/ Engineer’s

representative and Contractor/ Contractor's representative.

26.-= Sl Section is within CTP-1 and MS-3 includes MS-1. Actual date of

27.

28.

“eadiginion of MS-1 has a ripple impact on completion of MS-3. As is.

Z veh hom the CCP, completion of CTP-1 was critical for the

ap eagn of CTP-2 as the key activity of Track linking was to progress

in: inskgéice

That the work was planned and managed to facilitate the unhindered
track skeleton / movement of the NTC. CTP-2 having larger number of
structures than CTP-1 is not relevant since the Claimant had allocated
timelines and ensured that resources are available to complete pre-track
permanent works prior to arrival of NTC/ to facilitate the movement of
the NTC in the planned sequence without delay. The site can have
multiple groups/gangs, and concurrent working if necessary for
Formation, as required depending on the progress of Track linking with

NTC in sequence.

With reference to the generic statements by RW-2 that CTP-2 was more
challenging than CTP-1 and that there are some subsections in CTP-2
that are more complicated than CTP-1, I state that even assuming that

CTP-2 was more complicated, more time was allowed to deal with CTP-

ATT


10

2 than CTP-1 in the program which was approved CCP. I further state
that the work being more complicated in CTP-2 alone does not make
CTP-2 critical for the completion of MS-3 as track linking was to be
progressed in the planned sequence with Track skeleton of CTP-2 to’ We

commence after completion of Track skeleton of CTP-1.

D. RWS’s statements regarding purported delay to sections does not take XQ
into account the revised extended dates as per the EOT determinations: a

29. Numerous inaccurate statements have been made by RW-2 and RW-3 in
respect of purported delays to CTP-2 and CTP-1 respectively. In support

thereof, RW-2 relies upon as planned dates in CCP versus the alleged
ERR
Jey © Ra etyal dates without factoring the extended revised dates for the

inaccuracy of the Respondent's statements.

E. RWS’s statements regarding purported delay to sections which were

remote to NTC’s arrival:

30. CCP sets out the sequence and time planned for carrying out the
formation works simultaneously. With the Track skeleton work to be
undertaken with NTC, the programme followed a specific sequence of
Construction. The entire purpose of CCP is sought to be obviated if no
planning or sequence was required to be followed. The works cannot be
executed on as is made available basis by the Respondent with
Claimant's mobilizations of additional resources. Even the EOT has been

assessed on the basis of the sequence set out in the CCP.


11

31. It is evident that completion of Milestones as per Clause 8.2 of ATB
requires a sequential execution of activities so that the civil, electrical and
signaling contractors can synchronize the works to achieve completion
dates of MS-2 and MS-4, after completion of MS-1 and MS-3,

The Claimant had planned completion of whole work with one NTC in

detailed time programme which was approved as the CCP. The
Ps Sequence of track skeleton works planned in CCP is also set out in
Paragraph 2.5 and Paragraph 5 of the EOT determination.

33. As per the approved sequence of construction, after completion of track

let k from Bh toR iand Bh to Madar, the NTC
for, BS ‘On work from Bhagega to Rewari an agega to Madar, the

oe ws &

oy ‘alah upto Madar (feeding from Depot at Marwar), whereafter the

es =
* ;
a

be shifted to Marwar over IR track to commence laying of track

tr iok-work from Madar to Iqbalgarh was to be laid with feeding from
the depot at Marwar. No dismantling or reassembling of NTC was
envisaged. Actual shifting of NTC was done over IR tracks to execute
track linking from Durai to Marwar. Claimant relies upon the letter
dated 02 August 2018, 29 August 2018 and 16 November 2018 and the

Engineer’s EOT Determination in this regard.

34. The completion of work in planned sequence was further reinforced due
to the requirement of NTC which moves in linear forward manner and

laid tracks.

35. For the completion of track skeleton as per the sequence in CCP, the
works upto formation level of that section required completion prior to
arrival of NTC in the said section. The CCP accordingly envisaged
execution of Formation (comprising Earthwork, Major and Minor

structures completed upto formation level) simultaneously to complete

fi megeces
# TE ge


12

the same prior to arrival of NTC duly maintaining the minimum gap

between completion of formation and commencement of track works. //

36. With the development of Earthwork in the Rajasthan sector beir\
delayed due to the Change in Law and stay by NGT to the process of
EC, the development of Formation for the Track skeleton in contiguity Pa
was restrained. Completion of Formation in various sections was also
delayed due to the delay to the commencement of construction of RUBs
and MJBs due to various Respondent delays. Pursuant to above, the
track skeleton from Bhagega to Dabla was delayed. The development of
Formation in Haryana and Gujarat sectors was not on the priority of
Track linking. The commencement of Track work from Bhagega to Dabla
(the priority section) was also delayed with a knock-on impact on the
track skeleton work in Haryana and Gujarat sector. Therefore, the

sideration that the Claimant has not progressed the Earthwork in

RASHM Shedd : a and Gujarat sector which was not affected by the Change in

Advocete
JAIPUR (Rej.) Lal

d stay by NGT in the manner required in the CCP, due to
Regd. No. £429

ant’s delay is arbitrary.

by 7
The EOT Determination has itself relied on the delay to the Formation
works of various sections due to reasons not attributable to the

Claimant, which impacted the track skeleton of the whole work / MS-3.

38. With the movement of NTC in CTP-1 itself be restrained due to delay
events attributable to the Respondent, it was impossible for the Claimant

to undertake track works of CTP-2 section.

39, Further, works apart from Track Skelton work w.x.t. MS-1, even though

could be undertaken in parallel, the objective of completing Track
2ST
ATTY:
pie
OTA yi ND? xs
ypiPUR! ard py


13

skeleton in continuity would not have been met with. Therefore, the said

works were to be executed as per the sequence in CCP.
~

q
40. Even otherwise, Contract contemplates completion of Milestones in a

tific Sequence with “Coordination Events” means the event having
werface with Other Contractors during the execution of works at site.
opy of analysis of timelines as per Coordination Events for Interfacing
Contractors has been filed herewith as Exhibit C-121.

41. The Claimant could not have started MS-1 to MS-5 simultaneously due
to the linkage and sequential construction of the activities in each of the
Milestones; for example, MS-4 can commence only after completion of

» lectrical and signaling works by the interfacing contractors, The

spect ieqce of construction of MS-3 and MS-4 is similar to MS-1 and MS-2
with difference in time period. The Claimant has filed a chart

A as Exhibit C- 121 explaining the sequences. Claimant has also

(a “Kexplained this i
wht explained this in Response to Respondent's Bar chart showing the

linkage and sequential construction between activities in Milestones

have been filed and marked as Exhibit C- 125.

42. I state that it is logical that where resources were deployed at
subsections, those resources were deployed and progressed efficiently.
Without prejudice to the fact that there was no inefficiency as alleged by
RW-2 and RW-3, I state that even if resources were inefficient in their
production, such does not matter unless it affected the Track skeleton
with NTC. If there was inefficient production at a subsection, it was
because of the Respondent delays and also because the focus was on the

project critical activity.

F. Statements regarding adequacy of mobilization of one NTC:

AT +


14

43, That it is contradictory to assert that the works ought to have been
progressed according to the CCP on the one hand and, on the other, to p
suggest that a second NTC ought to have been used, when the aaa r

CCP required only one.

¥

44, I reiterate that CCP is formulated based on one NTC and EOT

Determination is based on the CCP. Therefore, adequacy of the NTC ,
cannot be a criterion to allege Claimant's delay, especially since the
Track Skeleton could not be progressed as per CCP due to the
Respondent's delays.

45,In other words, adequacy of number of NTC cannot be a criterion to

Weee Claimant's delay after accepting the programme as CCP. Track
could not be progressed as per CCP due to the Respondent’ s

“Aes the above, Claimant's revised programme considering 2 NTCs
with substantial early completion of the Contract was not accepted and
the requirement therein was not fulfilled. The additional NTCs was
brought in May 2017 due to the requirement/insistence of the

Respondent to complete the Contract ahead of Claimant's entitlement.

47. Respondent cannot modify the sequence of Track skeleton work in the
CCP by requiring Claimant to mobilise an additional NTC (should have
been provided) to reframe the timelines in CCP solely to deny the

entitlements accruing from the Respondent's delays.

48. The Claimant has filed a chart detailing Month-wise issues and delay
events related to execution of the track skeleton up to 31 August 2016 as
Exhibit C- 170, which reveals that the declination in the rate of progress


15

is attributable to numerous Respondent delays and which prevented the
Claimant from completing formation in the sequence and in the manner

‘ to progress track skeleton work as planned in the CCP.

now deal with specific allegations by each of RWS.

; Patt 2- Response to assertions made by RWS
A. Incorrect assertions by RW-1

50. The statements regarding Claimant's deficient performance in the
preliminary/design stage or non-compliance of the Claimant's
yo “obligations under CCP? are incorrect.
i AN

ae,

QO \

fan that the appointment of the Engineer who had to be present on
Gommencement date ie. 30 August 2013 was notified only on 23

yA Oy

Oy Aga 2014,

SO

Soe

52. The Employer appointed the Employer's representatives ie. CPM
(Jaipur) and CPM (Ajmer) to function as Engineer (designates) of the
respective section. On 22 January 2014, Claimant installed Primavera
software in the Employer's office (Engineer designate) and sought
confirmation for installation of the software in the Engineer’s system as
the Engineer was not appointed till such time. Copy of letter SLT/228
dated 22 January 2014 is annexed herewith and marked as Exhibit CW-

VAs.

53. It was only on 23 April 2014 that the appointment of the Engineer was
notified and on 23 April 2014 itself, the Claimant installed the software

? Para 24/RW-1 =a
J r


16

ae

in the Engineer's system. Copy of letter SLT/446 dated 05 Ma 014 is

se

relevant’. Fy
t

54. The allegation that there was delay in approval of time programme. as’ J ;

CCP due to reasons in Para 25/RW-1 are incorrect. In respect’ ‘of ie
Respondent's assertion that the dates for some of the activities planned
in the programme had already elapsed and hence, the programme
required revision to take care of such variations, Claimant had clarified
that the revision to the programme to account for the delays if any is to
be done after approval of the time programme and requested the
approval of the time programme. Copies of letter SLT/247 dated 03
February 2014 and minutes of the progress meeting dated 04 February
2014 annexed to letter SLT/277 dated 18 February 2014 are annexed
herewith and marked as Exhibit CW-1/16. Post approval of base

rogramme as CCP, the Claimant submitted the revised programme.

ile NONOC to the base programme was issued on 06 February 2014
the Engineer (designate) for CTP-2, NONOC to the programme was
‘delayed up to 23 May 2014 by the Engineer (designate) for CTP-1. Copies
of letters EN/SLT/PLNG/6 dated 20 May 2014 and AII-EN-SLT-CTP-2-
PLNG-01-34 dated 06 February 2014+. It was upon recommendation by
the Engineer (designates) on 23 May 2014 that the Engineer issued
NONOC to the base programme making it the CCP. The chain of events
related to the Claimant's submission of Clause 8.3 programme and the
Engineer’s/Respondent’s consent thereto as CCP along with various

correspondences exchanged is submitted as Exhibit CW - 1/17 (Colly).

3 Page—12-13 of Exhibit R-275
4 Page 07 and 14 of Exhibit R-275


17

56. RW-1’s statement regarding lack of information of planned deployment

of resources or budgeted cost has no relevance in light of the fact that

fhe Claimant has demonstrated that the resources required to complete
MS-3 was available at site during the Contract period ie. upto 9
February 20175. The Claimant has also demonstrated that the onsite and
offsite overhead incurred during the Contract period for the completion

of MS-3 was to the extent contemplated in the Contracté,

57. The actual resources deployed by the Claimant can be ascertained from

the MPR as well as documents on record. Copies of tables containing
a Sy

2. feiils of actual month-wise deployment of Equipment, Labour and
(ated from MPRs have been filed and marked as Exhibit C- 122
—_ and Exhibit C-124 respectively.

equirement of machinery could be evolved from the quantum of
activities in each Milestones timeline for its completion, and the
productivity indicated in the Contract / CCP. Copy of analysis of the
Machinery required as per the CCP vis-a-vis retained at the site
(computed basis the quantum of activities and the rated productivity)
upto 30 June 2018 has been filed herewith as Exhibit C- 126. The

statement of resources requirements linked to the delay events to which
the MS3 is subject to as on 31 August 2016 and such facts stated in
Section D of SOC is submitted as Exhibit CW-1/18 and Exhibit CW-1/19.

Itis apparent that the Claimant has sustained additional cost due to the

retention of resources as substantiated Section D of SOC, however the

computation of cost incurred on equipment is done in Exhibit C-92

SS
* Exhibit C-126; Page - 43 to 45 CD-337 and C- "19g Page .42844.t0 12815 Vol CD-358..
* Exhibit C-115; Page - 178351 to 178352; Vol€p'338._ k= he

NOTARY PUBRTO

JAIPUR (RAG ) iN Oe

fi id3

18

Exhibit C-93 and Exhibit C-97. I also rely on Exhibit C-188 in this

regard.

59. It is evident from, Claimant's EOT application, Engineer's EOT
Determination and other documents on record, that the Claimant olla

not carry out the work as per CCP due to various delay everits -

attributable to the Respondent, which continued beyond 31 August Sse
2016. The Claimant had to continue with the work in the extended
period and retain resources due to the said delay events and other
reasons stated in Section D of SOC. The cost claimed in the present
proceedings are time related and such cost incurred in the extended
period. Hence, costs incurred in the extended period was additional as

, ZERR p ot catered for in the Contract Price.

laimant submitted 12 updated programmes’ up to 31 August 2016.
This is despite continuance of the delay events and Claimant’s EOT

claims pending assessment by the Engineer.

62. Based on my understanding of Clause 8.6 of GCC/PC, the requirement
to submit a revised programme arises only when the actual progress is
too slow to complete the work within the Time for Completion other than
as a result of a cause listed in Sub-Clause 8.4 [Extension of Time for

Completion].

63. Up to31 August 2016, there were several Employer delay events which
prevented Claimant from achieving the time een and entitled

«Ee?

7 Exhibit C-128 Page - 47 to 1562 Vol CD-337 poxD-83)

oO
yw


19

Claimant to extension of time for completion. The Claimant’s EOT
claims due to Sub-Clause 8.4 events continuing over a period were also
1) Pending determination. Therefore, Claimant was not under obligation

|} to submit the revised programme.

However, as instructed by the Engineer/ Employer, Claimant submitted

Revised Programme to complete the work ahead of the entitled EOT.
While these revised programmes envisaged completion of works ahead
of entitled EOT (catch up), the same was subject to the Respondent
at the obligations therein.

a

Lh
pe alpen asserted that the Claimant did not comply with

rections of the Engineer/Employer neither factored the continuing

<a
Clause 8.4 delay events nor extension of time claims which were

pending assessment by the Engineer.

66. Theallegations that there was no recovery programmes in place and that
Claimant failed to submit catchup programme due to lack of resources$
are incorrect, unsubstantiated and contrary to the documents on record.
I state that not only did the Claimant have resources to achieve the
revised programme but also agreed to mobilise additional resources to
complete the work accordingly, if the programme is implemented post
the Employer fulfilling its obligations. However, the Engineer did not

accept the Revised Programme for implementation®.

8 Para -29 and 30/RW-1 Nee
> Exhibit C-129, Page - 1563 to 2215, Vol CD-340 JA


20

67. The assertions that there was Claimant's delay in design works due to

delayed and poor design submissions are incorrect.

68. RW-1’s allegation” that Claimant failed to scrutinize the Employer's f

Requirements (“ER”) or integrate and co-ordinate design and
construction works is unsubstantiated and incorrect. The recold

\
however prove that it was the Respondent who ordered the additional

requirements to ER for the review of Claimant's design documents,

69. Till the appointment of the Engineer, no design documents were
approved by the Engineer (designate) for Claimant's interface with other
agencies. On the other hand, as admitted by RW-11! and as is evident
from the records, it was the Employer who was having the interface

meetings with various authorities and IR regarding the design and

Pz aS
6 SAR Prcon
Ratt SHERARE ”

upon the recommendation of relevant drawings by the Engineer /

Respondent.

71. The statements made by RW-113 that there were delays due to Claimant
not deploying its design team in the main site office is incorrect and

contrary to the correspondence at the contemporaneous time.

10 para -31 and 32/RW-1 a? Ee e

4 para 55 to 56 /RW-1 + VAS x
2 Exhibit C-16, Page - 8716, Vol CD-25 Py es % (ne
13 Para -34 ex p 3 )
Oo XS
wou oat)


21

72. No Engineer was appointed by the Respondent on the Commencement
Date.

73. As per discussions with Respondent, it was clarified that the design
team will be based at Delhi and hence, the Claimant’s design team shall
also be based at Delhi. Hence, the Claimant proposed the technical
design establishment to be at Delhi and construction design

a establishment to be at site. Claimant's proposal was also submitted on
25 October 2013.

ae issue of delay was due to the non-appointment of Engineer by the

ee Adent Tt was on 15 January 20 2014 that the Employer intimated that

‘ingly, Claimant continued with the design establishment at
~ Faridabad (part of NCR/Delhi) for Technical design. All design experts

were made available at Delhi as and when required by the Engineer.

76. As the Engineer was not appointed till 23 April 2014 and as evident from
the contemporaneous record, Claimant arranged visit of its design
expert to Jaipur/ Ajmer for review with the Engineer

Designate/ Employer.

77. The statement that there was delays or wasteful discussions with Design
Engineers coming from Faridabad is incorrect and unsubstantiated.
Copies of Claimant's letter dated 25 October 2013 and 14 December 2013,
Respondent's letter dated 15 January 2014, Claimant's letter dated 20
January 2014, 27 January 2014 and 5 April 2014 and Engineer's letter

Aa TRE :
fe 3
2 — iG

met? BIR YY al ) INDE

APU i AUS 2023


22

dated 27 May 2014 are annexed herewith and marked as Exhibit CW-
1/20 (Colly).

78. Further, as is evident from Exhibit CW-1/20 (Colly) , contrary to RW-1's,7
:
assertions and the log summary in Exhibit R-277 (Colly), the Claimant

had set up its design organization team and submitted details thereof on

8 October 2013 which was resubmitted on 25 October 2013. The CVs of

the key design personnel was also submitted on 9 November 2013 and See

subsequent changes were also notified.

79. It is incorrect that there was failure by the Claimant to submit Design

Submission Programme".

80. Post submission of the CCP on 26 September 2013 and on 10 October
2013 Claimant submitted the design submission programme seeking

v
4
(82 Contractor's base programme as CCP was pending approval of the

Engineer up to 23 May 2014. In response to the Engineer's request to
submit the design submission programme, Claimant clarified that the
CCP includes the design submission requirements and no separate

programme is needed.

82. The Engineer on 28 July 2014 required Claimant to submit updated
design submission programme which was complied with on 16 Aug

2014 for which NONO is issued by the Engineer on 18 Sept 2014. Copy

14 para 35/RW-1 a i aN
Koos


23)

of letter SLT/137 dated 06 December 2013 is annexed herewith and
marked as Exhibit CW-1/21(Colly).

On 01 October 2013, the Employer designated the CPMs of the Employer
as the Engineer designates. CPMs were not resources to carry out the
duties of the Engineer and to this effect letter SLT/85 dated 06
November 2013 and SLT/179 dated 27 December 2013 refer to. The

situation was not improved in January 2014 as well as is evident from
Claimant's letter dated 13 January 2014, vide which Claimant informed

iT —Sepershonsions however notified that it is proceeding with the work
-—"

ing that the Employer's site office is having the resources as in the
bo s Office. a of the letters are annexed and filed herewith as

figs x
ae” 4
“Sy “The statement that the Respondent acting as the Engineer Designate till
the appointment of Engineer was having all resources for the review of

design documents and execution of work is incorrect.

85. Without admitting the contents of Exhibit R-280, I state that it is merely
a list of officers employed with the Respondent organisation which does
not indicate any design team comprising highly qualified Engineers and
supporting staff for the review of design documents in accordance with
CL 5.2 of GCC.

86. Without admitting the contents of Exhibit R-281, I further state that
Exhibit R-281 itself evidences that the design team comprising qualified

persons to carry out the review of design documents was not available.

87. Without admitting the contents of the log and summary of letters filed
as Exhibit R-282 (Colly), I state that the same does not prove that the


24

Engineer Designate had acted diligently for the time bound design
review. On the contrary, it is evident from the facts set out below that
the Engineer Designate had failed to carry out the review process 4S
required in this Contract and issued piece meal instructions. f Ve

(a) The Claimant's early activities were impaired by the © ®:

Respondent/Employer’s decision to replace his first appointment
of ‘Engineer (Designated) with a second appointment, which led ae
to inconsistencies in approach to the Claimant’s Documents
between the two.
(b) These problems meant that approvals for a significant number of
submitted Contractor’s Documents were issued late (and indeed
sometimes never issued at all) by the Engineer (Designated).
In particular, by way of example, the Claimant set out in its letter
dated 10 July 2014 a table listing the number of design
submissions made compared with the responses given by the

Engineer (Designate). The table shows that out of 671 design

submissions only 45 were returned within the contractual 21 days,

156 were responded to late, and 470 design submissions received

no response at all until after the appointment of the NK

Consortium as Engineer in April 2014.

(d) The Respondent's appointment of ‘the Engineer’ was notified to
the Claimant on 23 April 2014. This was some 236 days
(approximately 8 months) after the Commencement Date.

(e) From commencement to appointment of the Engineer, only 02

drawings for which approval was granted by the Engineer

designate!®,

45 Table - Claimant’s Schedule of Design Submissions — Exhibit C-13, Vol CD-18, Page no 5318
16 Exhibit C-13, Page — 5318 to 5376, Vol CD-18


25

(f) During the Engineer's first two months of appointment 37
NONO/NONOC were issued compared with just two
NONO/NONOC issued by the Engineer (Designate) in the
previous eight months.

F i (8) It is evident from various notices!” that the Engineer (Designate)’s

review of the Claimant's design document was delayed.

(h) Further delay was caused after the Engineer (Designate) was
replaced with the Engineer because the Engineer has not reviewed
the Claimant's Documents submitted up to 05 May 201418 stating

that the submissions were not in accordance with the document

“Control procedure set out in the Employer's Requirements. No such
Ba ¥
r

Requifements were ordered by the Engineer (designate) during

theihepliew. Claimant objected to the action of the Engineer.

dp sign review process being followed by the Engineer’

(DBsignate) was changed but, the review process was not finalised

” by the Engineer until 26 June 2014. The change in the Engineer's
required process for design review caused delay to design
approvals. Copy of letter dated 05 May 2014 of Engineer has been
filed and marked as Exhibit C-176. Copy of letter dated 26 June
2014 of Engineer has been filed and marked as Exhibit C- 177.
Copies of letters NKC/1405-07 dated 17 April 2014, NKC/1405-
10 dated 07 May 2014 along with Claimant's replies SLT/496 dated

26 May 2014, SLT/467 dated 13 May 2014, SLT/465 dated 12 May

2014 and SLT/473 dated 15 May 2014 are annexed herewith and

marked as Exhibit CW-1/ 23(Colly).

ee
” Exhibit C-13, Page — 5148 to 5465, Vol CD-18
* Exhibit C-176, Vol CD-361, Page-14838 aes
6 PUBLIC
JAIPUR Uf u ) INDE
e REY WE


26

(j) | Besides the dtowe, the Engineer (Designate) ordered following
Variations for the review of Claimant's design document and ff
issue the Engineer's consent/ NONO. f’ :

(k) For the approval of Span arrangement of the Major structures from \
IR, Claimant shall develop the GAD and obtain the consent of the
Engineer!’. This was not as per the requirements of Clause 3.1 of
ER design.

() = On10 March 2014”, it was directed that that GAD of the Major and
Minor structures will be reviewed only after the Engineer's consent
to the Plan and profile.

(m) For the approval of the GAD of the Plan and Profile, Contractor

shall submit the AVR jointly signed by Contractor and Engineer.

(0) It is evident from the above that the Engineer (Designate) was not

having the resources for the time bound review of the design
documents and to discharge the duties of the Engineer. Therefore,
the list of manpower and internal policies for design review does
not support the assertions of RW-1.

(p) Further, the Engineer (Designate) and Engineer's review being
issued piecemeal are evident from the record which have also been
filed along with Claimant's EOT application dated 02 March 2017.

Copies of submission by the Claimant to Engineer and Respondent

19 Exhibit C-179, Page — 58623, Vol CD-450
20 Exhibit C-182, Page — 74431, Vol CD-477


88.

89.

90.

91.

21 Exhibit C-178, Page — 14861 to 14982, Vol CD-361

27

in respect of Design Submission from 30 August 2013 to 31 August

2016 have been filed and marked as Exhibit C- 179 (Colly.)

In addition to the above, the Engineer delayed the following:

so if

Engineer's consent/ NONO to Inception Report was delayed up to
23 July 2014 when Claimant submitted the same on 10 October
201321

Claimant's detailed time programme was submitted on 26
a September 2013 but NONOC was issued only on 06 February 2014
‘ % dD Engineer designate (AII) and 20 May 2014 by Engineer
\ dctignat (JP). The Engineer issued consent only on 23 May 2014.
ye Engineer’s consent / NONO to Claimant's design documents

Engineer, along with correspondences has been filed and be marked as

Exhibit C- 178 (Colly.).

Pursuant to the delay by the Engineer / Respondent, the Claimant was

prevented from proceeding with the design stage of the Contract in a

timely, effective or efficient manner and in accordance with the CCP.

RW-1 has incorrectly asserted that sufficient land was available for the
Claimant but the Claimant had inadequate resources to execute work as

per CCP.

I state that the Respondent failed to hand over the unencumbered
possession of land as per the schedule in the CCP. A table setting out
details of the CCP handing over, the actual handing over by the

Respondent and the details of obstructions existing in the extended


28

period and beyond 30 June 2018 together with relevant documents are

filed herewith as Exhibit C- 46(Colly).

92. The whole work was to be completed within 208 weeks

Commencement Date adhering to 5 interim milestones. MS-1 and Ser
are the milestones relevant to Track Skeleton to be complete pia

respectively by 120 and 180 weeks from the Commencement Date.

93. As per the CCP, Claimant shall commence the track skeleton from
Bhagega and progress towards Rewari to complete MS-1 and then the

track work to proceed towards Iqbalgargh, in sequence.

94. For unhindered Track work, it was mandatory that the Formation
(comprising Earthwork, Major and Minor structures) of the sections is
developed in continuity as per the sequence of construction envisaged
in the programme. The time programme formulated by Claimant as
above was accepted as CCP. The handing over of “unencumbered” land

as per CCP was a requirement to meet the above requirement.

Pertinently, the obligation was not only to hand over land but also the
land handed over was to be encumbrance free. The land handed over by

the Employer was not unencumbered and a number of notices, to this

effect issued by Claimant, have been filed as part of Exhibit C-13”.

96. Contractor had been maintaining joint statements with the Engineer at
intervals which has been filed along with SOC and Rejoinder®. Sole and
selective reliance on consideration of status of handed over land in the

updated programme is not in line with the joint statement filed at

22 Exhibit C-13 (Colly), Page 3569-5465, Vol CD-15 to 18
23 Exhibit C-42 (Colly) to Exhibit C-45 (Colly) and Exhibit C-141 (Colly)


29

Exhibit C-42 (Colly) to Exhibit C-45 (Colly) and Exhibit C-141 (Colly),
In addition thereto, copies of RFIs have been filed herewith as Exhibit

|...

97.

4 Y independently to meet the track linking in sequence. It was also planned
wb

CP require Claimant to progress the Formation of various sections

Sf iy

that prior to commencement of track linking of any section, Formation
of the said section is completed so that planned productivity of NTC is

met with.

——
CLieg SS
re)

\\

Tt Lig evident from the CCP that completion of the Formation also follows

the same sequence as the track work. However, to commence the

Formation of 21 sections simultaneously / concurrently, these sections
~ should have been encumbrance free as per the planned dates in the CCP.
I have set out hereinbelow, few examples of the continuing

encumbrances.

99. Handing over of unencumbered Possession of land of almost 143.59Kms
was not completed up to 31 January 2015 As on 31 August 2015, land
measuring 88.01Kms was not handed over. 40.43Kms land was
unavailable as on 31.08.2016. The handing over of land continued to be
piecemeal and as on 31 January 2017, 30 November 2017 and 30 June
2018 respectively unencumbered land measuring 36.68Kms, 34.04Kms
and 16.08Kms was unavailable due to the delay on the part of the
Respondent.

100. As per the joint statement, as on 31 August 2016, unencumbered
possession of 40.4Km of land was unavailable. The Respondent's
consideration of 2.472Km as the unavailable in Madar - Saradhana is
incorrect as is evident from the letter NKC/1708-85 dated 24 August


101.

104.

30

2017, as per which land unavailable in Madar Saradhana section alone

was 3.25Km. Besides the above, as per the letter NKC/1909-50 date

September 2019, 5.7Km in section Sakhun - Kishangarh was unav'
as on 30 November 2017. Thus, total length unavailable for whic

‘Be ee,
is considered and determined by the Engineer to be 40.4 Km as Pa SP
August 2016. wel

Further, as per joint statements prepared by the Parties, even as on 31
January 2017, cumulative obstructed length of 31.54 kms in 239 patches
continued to exist from Bhagega to Iqbalgarh. These obstructions, within

the Formation, were not cleared even in the extended period.

Even as on 31 August 2016, in the Marwar - Chandawal - Section, there
was (a) obstruction / hindrances totally to 2.534 Km [Including
Structure Gaps], (b) IGAD of 09 RUBS in this section were awaited, (c)
Obstructions due to IR Quarters, Water Tanks (3 nos. of capacity 1.25
Lakh liters) at Marwar (d) RUB at LC-57 which is at approx. 1 km from
Marwar Depot was held up due to non - Construction of IR RUB.

In the case of Marwar- Jawali Section, even as on 31 August 2016, there
was obstruction of 0.577 Km [Including Structure Gaps] and IGAD of 10

RUBS were awaited.

Section 285.6 to 293.6 and 300.4 to 327.4 is falling within Madar -
Saradhana - Bangurgram section. The sub-section 285.6 to 293.6 (part of
Madar - Saradhana) was encumbered even as on 31 August 2016. The
sub-section 300.4 to 327.4 (part of Madar - Saradhana - Bangurgram)
was also encumbered even as on 31 August 2016. Claimant rely on

Exhibit C-42, Exhibit C-43 (Colly) and Exhibit C-46. eerefore, the


31

contention that, the above sections was handed over unencumbered on

10 March 2014 is inappropriate.

I further state that even though the revised target date for
commissioning of Madar - Marwar section had been unilaterally fixed
as February 2019, the Respondent handed over encumbrance free patch
of 1.3 kms only on 2 February 2019 and Garhimaliyan cabin only on 8
, roe 2020, which were both in the Madar - Durai section.

\ oa
é) that the Claimant has filed the documents listed hereinbelow in

stat
sui port of its aforesaid statements:

Sf “4

aaa he a) A table of obstructions (section wise) existing as on 31 August 2016

is filed herewith as Exhibit C-42, A compilation of joint statements

from Rewari to Iqbalgarh evidencing the obstructed length

together with non-handed over ROW as on 31 August 2016 are

filed herewith as Exhibit C- 43(Colly).

b) A table of obstructions (section wise) existing as on 31 January 2017
is filed herewith as Exhibit C-44, Compilation of joint statement

from Bhagega to Iqbalgarh evidencing the obstructed length as on
31 January 2017 is filed herewith as Exhibit C-45(Colly).

c) Copies of charts containing details of Obstructions as on 31 January
2015, 31 August 2015, 30 November 2017 and 30 June 2018 along
with RFIs and letters have been filed herewith Exhibit C-141
(Colly.).

d) Details of obstructions jointly recorded by Claimant and the
Engineer at contemporaneous time is filed as Exhibit CW-1/25
(Colly)


107.

108.

109.

110.

4 Para 44/RW-1
25 Exhibit C-141, Page 11352 — 11395, Vol CD-355

32

In addition to the above, copies of notices issued by the Claimant for
each of the Delay Events upto 31 August 2016 is filed as Exhibit C-13
(Colly). Copy of some of the notices by the Claimant regarding delay
being caused due to execution of the work in encumbered site have been’ ‘

filed as part of Exhibit C-48(Colly). [

i.
Vi
In view of the aforesaid exhibits on record, the sole and selective reliance
on the narrative, status assumed in the updated programme for the
actual status of handing over of unencumbered possession of land is

inaccurate.

RW-1 has asserted, although incorrectly, that even after acknowledging
the availability of encumbrance-free land in earlier submissions, the

Claimant issued many letters related to obstructions at the site in order

to cover its own delays. A reference to the Joint statements would reveal

The examples cited in the table do not reflect an accurate and complete
picture. The letter filed as Exhibit R-284 (Colly) does not prove the
statements of RW-1. In fact, none of the letters even show when was the
last obstruction removed or that these obstructions were away from
ROW or had no effect on the ongoing execution. I refer to Exhibit C-

14125 which sets out obstructions prevalent even as on 30 June 2018.


33

111. Claimant has not created any encumbrances in the handed over section
as alleged. There was disruption to the work progress by the locals
alleging non-payment of compensation and this has been notified at the
relevant time. The encumbrances alleged to be created by Claimant in R-

285 was removed without impacting the work progress.

yf 112. Commencement of all 21 sections were delayed due to various
Respondent delays. Completion of formation of sections (critical for the
track work) was delayed substantially due to various Respondent delay
_— eg This in had a knock-on impact on some of the activities related

ie) >
to orm tion and track related activities,

\ \
os

\
CHV] shh none of the sections were delayed by Claimant due to

ae bility of resources. The Claimant was having the resources to
Pa
‘cOtinfiience and progress the work of all sections as per the available —

work front26,

114. Up to 31 August 2016, NTC mobilized in CTP-1 could not be provided
with the continuous front due to the Respondent's delays. Therefore,
provision of an additional NTC would not have improved the position.
Claimant relies on the correspondence exchanged in this context at the

contemporaneous time.

115. As per CCP, Track Skelton was to commence on 02 January 2015 from
Bhagega towards Dabla. CCP envisages that Track Skelton will
commence only after the formation of Bhagega - Dabla (earthwork

including all structures completed up to formation level) is completed.

NTC requires continuous developed formation for commissioning.

—
5 Exhibit C-126, Page 43 to 45, Vol CD-337


116.

117.

120.

34

The key activity pelivantt to MS-3 is the track skeleton which was to be
done using NTC. Continuous developed Formation is a pre-requisjte for
track laying. NTC cannot jump over discontinuity in the for yation,-
therefore, Track laying will have to stop wherever there is a gap in the - a.

Formation.

It is reiterated that handing over of land free from all encumbrances is a
pre-requisite for timely completion of earthwork. The Claimant could
develop sections upto Formation level only if full encumbrance
free lengths was made available. As per the CCP, the formation of a
section (including Earthwork) had to be completed up to formation level

oe to commencement of the track skeleton work of that section.

7“ Hailable unencumbered portions. No earthwork could be carried out in
e obstructed portions spread across numerous patches intermittently

across the length.

As on 31 January 2015, Bhagega - Dabla Section had 6.38Km of
obstructions. Besides the above, due to Respondent delay events,
commencement of construction of RUBs in this section could not be done
upto 01 May 2015 (First IGAD approval in this section). Commencement
of construction of MJBs in this section was delayed up to Sep-2015 due
to the delay in the Engineer’s consent / NONO to Technical design after
obtaining IR approval to the GAD.

Despite the contractual breach of non-handing over of unencumbered
ROW by the Respondent, no EOT was assessed by the Engineer in

respect thereof. The Engineer has concluded that the delay on such count


35

will be absorbed by other concurrent’ dominant delay during the
extended period resulting from the Engineer's analysis
121. The contentions and observations of RW-12’ in relation to the purported

j insignificant presence of Sojitz is incorrect and an afterthou ght.

4
iy
P

722. L&T being the local partner provide the resources inter alia Labour,
Machinery and Materials and supervision for execution of the Works.

The work was accordingly carried out.

) “This working arrangement was known to the Respondent as L&T was
_ tindettaking, completing, supervising and interacting with the Engineer
sid Respondent for execution of the works. Officials of L&T (at various
vel Is ) were representing the issues related to this Contract with
“A Safneer, Respondent, Railways and even the Ministry and receiving
instructions for early completion of the works. One of such Minutes of

Meeting evidencing the contents of present paragraph is annexed and

marked as Exhibit CW-1/26.

124. Working as per the above arrangement, the Claimant Consortium
completed the work and the same has been taken over by the
Respondent. At no point of time, the Respondent raised an issue
regarding the inappropriateness of L&T’s experience in undertaking this

work.

125. The issues raised by the Respondent pursuant to 24 October 2016 was
responded by Claimant vide its letter SLT /7563 dated 12 December 2016.
However, pursuant to the letter dated 12 December 2016 no change to

the above working arrangement was made for execution. It is evident

27 Para 48-52/ RW-1

i


36

that the observations and contentions now sought to be raised by RW-1

in para 48-52 have no merit.

126. The statements that there is Claimant’s lack of coordination with ie

Authorities / Agencies is incorrect. The Claimant has co-ordinated aA
eS
various IR/ Authorities to obtain approval of the GAD. Ra ao -
nd
Ae

127. Contract does not require Claimant to establish a team to liaison ant Sc
obtain approval of design and drawings recommended by the
Respondent from IR/ Authorities. However, I clarify that there is no
failure by the Claimant in complying with its obligations.

128. However, these Authorities/ IR have taken substantial time for its
review and required number of modifications to the design and
drawings which had already been approved by the Engineer, including
Variations. This delay is not the resultant effect of lack of coordination
by Claimant as alleged. In this regard, Exhibit C-138?8 evidencing delay
caused by IR to the approval to GAD of MJB is submitted in this regard.

The Respondent's assistance to Claimant to coordinate and its own
coordination with IR and other department and formulating a
monitoring committee etc was well within its obligations and not a

result of any of Claimant's default as alleged.

130. Coordination with IR was not the Claimant's responsibility, as alleged.
Delay, if any, on this account is attributable to the Respondent.

Respondent seeks to misinterpret contractual provisions.

28 Exhibit C-138' Page 2917 to 5649, Vol CD-342 to 345


37

131. Claimant’s coordination/interface was to ensure that its execution of

work does not hinder works being undertaken by the other interfacing

parties, and vice-versa. The Respondent is seeking to confuse the said

requirements with the issue of delay in approval of design and

7 >»

° ee A U

commencement of construction of RUBs caused due to:

The Variation/ new requirement dated 05 November 2014 of
obtaining approval from IR the GAD showing the integrated
arrangement of RUB on IR and DFCC track to be prepared by

, Claimant prior to commencement of construction of RUB.

oes , b)\ : \Non-construction by IR, the RUB on IR track which is conjoint with

\

athe RUB to be constructed on DFCC track which in turn delayed

, the commencement of RUBs on DFCCIL track.

“2 Claimant had no role/authority to interface with IR to resolve / decide

on issues which are concerning design and construction of work

involving IR. No delay can be attributed to the Claimant in respect of

delays caused by IR. In this regard, it is pertinent to note the following:

a)

b)

d)

Claimant was not a party to the additional requirement of IR’s
approval to the GAD showing the integrated arrangement of RUB
on IR and DFCC track (to be prepared by Claimant) prior to
construction of RUB on DFCC track. DFCC was a party to the
agreement.

This additional requirement was notified by the Respondent to the
Engineer, and Claimant was directed by the Engineer to comply
with the requirement in accordance with Clause 3.3.

The Engineer assessed the requirement of IR’s approval of IGAD of
RUB prior to its construction as a Variation to the Contract.
Claimant's request to avoid such additional requirements was not

acceded to.


38

e) On 29 May 2015, Claimant was allowed to cast RUB boxes at its risk
and cost, pending approval of IGAD by IR. Copy of letter date
May 2015 of Engineer is filed herewith as Exhibit C-164.

f) On08 January 2016, the Respondent decided that RUBs in CTP-2

commence as per the token approval of IGAD by the Respondent, as
approval of IGAD by IR was taking considerable time. One of such
approvals granted is submitted as Exhibit CW - 1/27.

133. Following is submitted in respect of RUBs constructed for this Contract:

a) Contract provides that requirement of RUB on DFC track was based
on the requirement of elimination of LC being implemented by IR.

b) Contract was formulated by the Respondent in consultation/
accordance with requirement of IR.

c) Construction of RUB by IR is on IR side of the work, not on DFCC
side.

d) Construction of IR RUB is to be done by IR and is governed by the
systems of IR.

e) Tender for many RUBs on IR side (unconstructed) were called for

after start of DFC RUB of CTP1&2.

f) Claimant was even directed to undertake some of IR RUBs as extra
work, when the works on DFCC track was delayed substantially due
to non-construction of RUB on IR track.

g) Burial of RUB boxes was adopted by Claimant to avoid idling of
NTC/track resources, whereby part of the RUB was completed to
facilitate track skeleton by moving NTC over such part completed

RUB. Part completion RUB is not envisaged in the Contract.

It is evident that no delay can be attributed to the Claimant on account of _

the above points alleging Claimant's lack of interface with IR.


39

134. As per the terms of the Contract, Span arrangement / Technical design
“of\RUB was not requiring the approval of IR and hence, there was no

Te irement of coordination with IR for the approval of Claimant's

-J ign in relation to RUB. It was only based on the discussion of the

. Aan with IR, the requirement of IR’s approval to the IGAD of

oo on IR and DFCC side was brought into the Contract as Variation.
5

> “R's approval of IGAD was substantially delayed due to the time take by
JAR’ lof the review, this aspect is notified in various notices/ letters filed

as part of Exhibit C-13, Exhibit C-31, Exhibit C-138, Exhibit C-139 and
“Exhibit C-131.

135. Without prejudice to the submission that the coordination with IR was
not within the Claimant's scope, the contemporaneous records evidence
that pursuant to design submissions after incorporating the new
requirement of IGAD approval to the Engineer, the Claimant had no
direct role in the approval process. It was the Respondent which
conducted all meetings for obtaining IGAD approval with the IR and the
Road authorities for the design of RUBs, to the exclusion of Claimant.
The above being the situation, the coordination requirement was not of

the Claimant.

136. I deny that there was Claimant's delays in formation works during

Environmental Clearance/NGT Ban in Rajasthan

137. Based on Claimant's substantiation of its entitlement pursuant to the
Change in Law requiring EC for mining of minor minerals from mines
having an area less than 5 Ha and stay to the process of EC by NGT etc.
the Engineer granted EOT under Clause 13.7, 8.4 and 8.5 of GCC/ PC.


138.

140.

141.

22 Exhibit C-13 Page 4633 to 4636 Vol CD-17

The EOT granted by the Engineer is tunconditionall ¥acceptelf by ie
Respondent. AY

The EIA notification dated 14 September 2006 and Supreme Court order
dated 27 February 2012 was not implemented in the State of Rajasthan.
Duly interpreting the decision of SC, the State has amended the mining
rules in June 2012 as per which the requirement of EC will be met by the
EMP of cluster of mines to be issued by District Appraisal Committee

(State). This was the law in force on the state of Rajasthan.

e Base Date of the Contract is 21 January 2013. In the present case,
e was a change in legislation in the State of Rajasthan on 09

ember 2013 (gazette notification of MOEF), which is after the Base

oO

. Subsequent to 09 September 2013, Claimant had to obtain EC

>refore the State would issue a lease for mining of minor minerals in areas

of less than 5 hectares. Claimant was directed to obtain EC prior to
seeking permission for the mining of minor minerals. This is evidenced

from Exhibit C-1329.

The Respondent's letters (including 28 March 2014 referred to in
paragraph 40/RW-1) and the Claimant's response thereto on the subject
matter was a consideration of the Engineer at the time of determining

EOT due to this delay event and to this effect Exhibit C-13 is relevant.

RW-1 has incorrectly asserted that there was Claimant's failure to
procure earth from Borrow Areas till June 2014. In this regard, I have
set out hereinbelow the chain of events lead to delay in commencement
of earth work from borrow pit, which itself shows tl ere was no

delay by the Claimant.


142.

143,

144.

145.

146.

41

The Claimant had submitted borrow pits identified by it ie. 123
locations for CTP-1 and 77 for CTP-2 in the Inception report submitted
by it on 10 October 2013. Copy of letter dated 10 October 2013 is annexed
herewith and marked as Exhibit - CW-1/28.

In response to the Respondent's requirement of Test reports for
approving the borrow pits, Claimant informed that the same would be ~
submitted as and when the works commence. Copy of letter SLT/186
dated 08 November, 2013 is annexed herewith and marked as Exhibit -
CW-1/29

By letter SLT/299 dated 24 February 2014, Claimant submitted the list
of borrow pits identified for CTP-2 package (64 numbers) and sought
joint inspection and tests. Copy of letter SLT/299 dated 24 February 2014
is annexed herewith and marked as Exhibit - CW-1/30. The Claimant

received no response to its request for joint inspection.

On 27 September 2013, Claimant commenced the process of EC by
representation to SEIAA. However, as the process of EC was slow, based
on Claimant's request, the Respondent requested SEIAA/SEAC to
expedite the process. Copy of letter dated 24 May 2014 is annexed
herewith and marked as Exhibit - CW-1/31.

Claimant’s requests for joint inspection of sampling and quality of
borrow pit soil on 10 February 2014 and 01 March 2014 in was not
responded to by the Engineer (Designate). Copy of RFI dated 10
February 2014 and 01 March 2014 in is annexed herewith and marked as

Exhibit - CW-1/32.


147.

149.

150.

151.

152.

153.

42

After assessment of quality of borrow pit soil, Claimant « on 18 March
2014 sought Short Term Permits (“STP”) for ordinaiyeddte in the state

of Rajasthan. Exhibit - CW-1/33.

Only post appointment of Engineer, Claimant had joint inspection and
sampling of the borrow pits for applying for STP. Copy of RFIs dated 24
May 2014, 17 June 2014 and 04 July 2014 are annexed herewith and

marked as Exhibit - CW-1/34.

On 28 March 2014, the process of EC as per MOEF office memorandum
dated 24 December 2013 was stayed by the Hon’ble National Green
Tribunal (“NGT”) in the State of Rajasthan.

Since State of Rajasthan continued with appraisal of EC, on 06 June 2014
the Hon’ble NGT stayed the process of EC with effect from 08 January
2014.

On 05 July 2014, the Claimant approached the Hon'ble NGT by way of
an application for impleadment and sought for vacation of the stay of
the process of EC. Meanwhile, the Claimant continued to submit the

application seeking EC.

On 26 November 2014, the State amended the mining rules as per which
mining of earth up to 1.5 metres does not require EC. Immediately, the
Claimant has taken action to obtain approval from the State to
commence earth wok from borrow pit as per the amended rules dated
26 November 2014. Claimant obtained approval to commence borrow

pit as per the said statue since December 2014.

Approval of SEIAA for Borrow areas for which EC was notified in the

year 2015. A table in respect of Approval of SEIAA for Bortow areas is

fos, b
ah


154.

155.

156.

157.

158.

159.

43

}

-f a we
annexed herewith and marked Seahebiecw1/36, By the time EC was
granted, Claimant had progressed earthwork in filling as per the
permission granted by the State / based on its revised statue dated 26
November 2014.

In light of the above chain of events, I am hereinbelow setting out

response to specific contentions of RW-1.

Claimant has identified the borrow pits/areas at the time of inception
report and notified the Respondent of the same, including reserving

right to submit the test results prior to commencement of the work.

The testing of materials was delayed till the appointment of the Engineer
and which inturn delayed the STP for borrow pits.

SEIAA and SEAC was taking substantial time to grant EC. From the
perusal of the EC granted by SEIAA/ SEAC for the application placed
before it, it is evident that Claimant could not have commenced

Earthwork from borrow earth before 24 April 2015.

Notwithstanding the above, following the revised mining rules of the
State dated 26 November 2014, Claimant commenced the earth work in

embankment from borrow pit much earlier ie., since 12 December 2014.

As is evident from Hon'ble NGT order dated 06 June 2014, the ban by
Hon’ble NGT is for the process as per MOEF OM dated 18 June 2013 and
24 December 2013. All EC granted by the State up to 08 January 2014 was
banned by Hon’ble NGT, which remained underhold till order dated 13
January 2015 of Hon’ble NGT. Therefore, no delay on this counts can be
attributed to Claimant being due to the stay by Hon’ble NGT from 28
March 2014 to 13 January 2015.

ATTESTED

NOTARY PUBLIC
JAIPUR (RAL) IND:

‘ANG 1023


160.

161.

44

OTA

@
*«
“The office memorandum dated 24.12.2013 provides that Prof

categorized as B-1 require EIA report for appraisal and has also to
undergo public consultation process as applicable, while projects
categorized as B-2 will be appraised based on the application in
Forrn-1 accompanied by Pre-feasibility Report. Under clause I(iit)

_ no river sand mining project, with mine lease area less than 5 ha.
may be considered for grant of environment clearance and river sand
mining projects with mining lense area of 5 ha. but less than 25 ha.
will be categorized as category B-2 issued by the Government of
Rajasthan on 08.01.2014.

It is also clarified that even if any auction has been/or is to be
conducted, no letter of intent shall be issued, without getting prior

permission from this Tribunal.”

Claimant had taken effort to obtain boulder/ aggregates from quarries
having EC/ for which EC was not required. During operation of the stay
by NGT, Claimant was meeting the requirement of aggregate by
purchasing it from existing stock available in the market or basis the
limited production. The issues related to the Respondent's direction
dated 05 February 2014 was responded on 04 March 2014 which has
been filed as part of Exhibit C-13 at page 4430 in Vol CD-17.

RW-1’s assertions that Claimant is taking shelter under Change in law is
incorrect, which is evident from the chain of events set out hereinabove,
inter alia Claimant’s responses, the Engineer’s assessment of EOT
pursuant to this delay event and Respondent's approval of the EOT
Determination. The said correspondences have already been filed oy


162.

to 9137, Vol CD-26, “SQV 1.

45

na
18 Page 9023.t 135, Vol CD-26 and Exhibit C-19, Page 9136

~Oyr, CL

The following points are pertinent:

a)

b)

8)

Claimant notified the Engineer/ Employer of the Change in law
and likelihood impact at the relevant time.

Claimant applied for EC in respect of quarries prior to seeking
permission of the State required as per the MOEF OM dated 24
December 2013 implemented on 08 January 2014.

Claimant sought for impleadment before Hon’ble NGT and also
sought for vacation of the stay which led to the order dated 13
January 2015, post which resumption of work took place.
Claimant had also continued submitting application for EC during
the stay period.

Claimant also procured boulder / aggregated from quarries for
which EC was available / commence operations for quarries for
which no EC was required. No such actions could be taken in the
case of earth as was not available for purchase in the State of
Rajasthan.

Upon implementation of the decision of the State dated 26
November 2014 in respect of borrow pits (which was when the
operation of stay to the process of EC was pending consideration
of NGT), Claimant commenced earthwork prior to the decision of
Hon’ble NGT.

Claimant obtained EC for all stone quarries up to February 2015 ie.
immediately after vacation of the stay by NGT order dated 13
January 2015.


46

LE,

163. Ireiterate that NGT order dated 28 March 2014 was not imptgibe sd iby
the State which led to the order of Hon’ble NGT dated 6 June 2014 ‘by
thereby staying the process of EC and all EC approved by the state up
to that date was restrained. The NGT order dated 06 June 2014 was C a

notified to the Engineer with copy to the Respondent. In this regard, I

refer to Exhibit C-13 filed at Page 4694 to 4695 in Vol CD-17.

Claimant responded to the Engineer/ Respondent's untenable

165. The contentions raised by RW-1 were already considered by the

Engineer at the time of assessment of EOT who held the following:

“Analysis of the claimed Change in Law requiring prior
Environmental Clearance [EC) for the State of Rajasthan, to issue
lease for mining of minor minerals having an area less than 5 ha,
delay in granting EC due to various Authority delays and stay to
the process of EC by NGT.

3.5.8. In view of the above, the Engineer concludes that the Contractor is
entitled EOT due to the following:

a. Mining Department of State of Rajasthan did_not implement the
requirement of EC within the state of Rajasthan until 09-09-2013 (date
of issue of Notification by MOEF). Thereby meaning that as on the
Base Date (22-01-2013). requirement of EC was not there.

b. Suspension of EC process due to the NGT stay between 08-01-2013
and 13-01-2015 was totally beyond the Contractor's control.

c. Therefore, all the delay caused by the requirement of EC w.e.f. 09-09
2013 and thereafter stay on EC due to NGT order/judgment are eligible
for consideration of EOT until the situation w atirely restored by

13-01-2015. au
a Ae &
@
“ vee wer
as i
r pee
oe
ver


d. The assessment of EOT due to requirement of EC (
law) and subsequent the NGT order, which affected the
works, has been examined in the followin 8 paras 4.1 to 4.21.

e. Delay caused due to stay by NGT did not affect the portion of track in
the states of Haryana and Gujrat, but since it affected:

i) Bhagega - Dabla section (being in Rajasthan), the same has been
considered to have affected Rewari - Bhagega section in view of the
planned sequence of construction as highlighted in para 2.5 above.

it) Marwar to Shri Amtrgadh (being in Rajasthan}, the same has been
considered to have_affected Shri Amirgadh-lgbalgarh_section
(which falls in Gujrat state) in view of ‘ planned sequence of
construction as highlighted in para 2.5 above.”

166. The Engineer has given a finding that the requirement of EC for mining
of minerals having an area less than 5 Ha was implemented only by way
of Notification dated 09 September 2013 and was a Change in Law and
beyond Contractor’s control and accordingly, granted EOT as per
Clause 13.7, 8.4 and 8.5 of GCC. I refer to Exhibit C-18 at Page 9023 to
9135 in Vol CD-26.

167. RW-1 has incorrectly asserted that there was Claimant's delay in getting
approvals before the planned date of commencement of formation
work* and further that there was non-performance of Claimant prior to
ban of NGT?1 i.e., 06 June 2014. In this regard, I state the following:

168. MOEFF’s notifications regarding the requirement of EC prior to the State
issuing lease was not implemented in the State of Rajasthan in respect of

mines having area less than or equal to 5 Ha.

—
3° Page 69-76/RW-1
31 Page 77- 81/RW-1


48

169. Earth could not have been purchased for the use in the work and hence

EC for mining of earth was to be obtained basis the statute da ad. 09

September 2013 implemented in the State.

170. Therefore, the statute dated 09 September 2013 was held to bea Change §

in Law led to shortage of materials. This was the assessment of the

Engineer in the EOT Determination accepted by the parties.

\of the subsequent legislations. The programme submitted as per

ove consideration was accepted as CCP on 23 May 2014, when the

2013. I refer to the documents filed as part of Exhibit C-13 at Page 4375
to 4376 in Vol CD-17.

172. Asis evident from the chain of events set out hereinbefore, there was no
delay by the Claimant, which otherwise could have mitigated the delay
already caused to the work due to the Change in Law and Stay by NGT

173. The requirement of EC was the Change in Law with impact to the
timelines stated in the CCP. Despite the fact of Change in Law having
been established and Time for Completion is extended as per the
Engineer’s assessment of EOT settled between the parties, the
Respondent cannot insist upon the Claimant to complete earthwork on

the planned dates as per CCP.

174. Pertinently, even time for completion of earth work as per CCP was
extended by the Engineer in all sections [except sections in Dabla -
Rewari and Shriamirgarh to Iqbalgargh] and” ‘accepted by the


summary of statement of EOT reflecting the r ended dates and

marked as Exhibit - CW-1/14

A

ps
175¥ With reference to RW-1’s incorrect assertions that there was non-
Z

176.

177.

178.

179;

180.

181.

performance of Claimant prior to 06 June 201432, I state the following:

Claimant divided the whole section in to 21 subsections inthe CCP. The
division of the whole work in to work segments (“WS”) is to facilitate

admission of interim payments.

Work falling in Rajasthan sector was affected by the Change in Law and
the stay/orders by Hon'ble NGT.

Formation work from Bhagega to Dabla in the State of Rajasthan was on

priority for the commencement of track linking.

As per CCP the track skeleton of section Dabla - Rewari (falling in the
Haryana sector) had to commence after completion of Track skeleton of
Bhagega - Dabla and hence, completion of the earth work had to follow

the same sequence.

Commencement and completion of Formation (comprising Earthwork,
Major and Minor Structures) in the Haryana section was also delayed
due to various events not attributable to Claimant. To this effect, the
delay notices filed as part of Exhibit C-13 at Page -3569 to 4270 in Vol
CD-15 to CD-16 are relevant.

As per the CCP, formation work of WS-137 to WS-141 (Gujrat sector)

was to commence on 19 May 2014 and complete on 24 November 2016

> Page 82- 86/RW-1 ee


skeleton of Gujrat sector will commence only 754 days after co
of track skeleton from Bhagega to Dabla).

= fy
182. Since the commencement of track skeleton from Bhagega - Dabla >

delayed (with respect to CCP) due to the delayed completion of earth
work pursuant to the change in law and NGT stay for which Engineer
granted EOT, it is inappropriate to consider that the work in the Gujrat
sector should have been completed as per the planned dates in CCP.
More so, when the track linking in the said section was to start on 26
September 2018 after almost 671 days with respect to planned date of
completion of Earthwork (including blanket) as per CCP (24 November

2016). Revised timeline as determined by the Engineer in the assessment
of EOT dated 24 August 2017 relevant in this regard is filed as part of
Exhibit C-174 at Page 14831 in Vol CD-361.

183. The delay in approval of the P&P was not due to the Claimant's ill
quality submission as alleged but due to the piecemeal review of the
design documents. This has been detailed the same in Exhibit C-131
and Exhibit C-140.

184. With 87% of the Earthwork delayed due to Change in Law and stay to
the process of EC by NGT etc and the balance cutting of 13% in isolated
sections across the whole Contract (full cut spoil could not be used in the
work due to the different type of strata confronted like soft rock, hard
rock etc. in cutting), Claimant could not have completed Earth work of
any of the sections until December 2014 ie., after the requirement of EC
was reversed in the State as per the amendment e& e mines and

minerals rules dated 26 November 2014.


51

185. It was neither practical ‘nor: rudent to complete the earth work in

\,
\

patch es with cut spoil, olation including blanket. Such work

congpleted in patches will not allow continued work progress of
wy)
sequent activities like ballast spreading, track skeleton and handing

over of completed section to other interfacing Contractor.

186. There was no failure by the Claimant to take up cutting%, as alleged. I
have dealt with the same in my Witness Statement dated 07 July 2023.

187. Claimants detailed time programme was accepted as CCP. There was
delay to the CCP due to various Respondent delay events. Resultantly,
time for completion was enlarged. Claimant has taken all the measures
to mitigate the delays. I reiterate that there has been no inadequate/
improper planning or lack of liasoning or management by the Claimant

which has lead to delay in completion as alleged.

188. The Respondent is not entitled to any Counterclaims. The Counterclaims
are fictitious and appear to be a counterblast. The Respondent has not
established any basis of Counterclaims. No interpretation advanced by
RW-1 of Contractual provision is admitted. The statements are
unsubstantiated. None of the documents establish the Counterclaims

sought or are admitted.

RW-2
189. Pertinently, post awarding the contract, execution of works thereunder
and taking over, RW- 2 has raised the issue of the Claimant's quoted bid

price being abnormally low price.

33 Page 88-92/RW-1


52

190. In case, the price quoted by a bidder was unrealistically low, ‘the
Respondent could have rejected the bid**. Not having raised any such
issue and on the contrary having awarded the Contract to the Claimant
the contentions now being raised are meritless, afterthought and ‘

misleading.

191. The Respondent, who is now alleging that the Contract price was
substantially low, has continued with its delays including handover
being as late as on 08 October 2020. No efforts was taken by the
Respondent to avoid delay with a result of Claimant incurring

additional cost due to extended stay.

192. Pertinently, the project with Contract Price of 6699.5 Cr (equivalent INR)

which had to be completed within 1456 days (4 years approx.) has been
BA

N
< son ig Ocdmpleted and taken over in 3023 days (8 years approx.) i.e., with 100%
43°) \d

due to various Respondent delays and other reasons stated in Section D

of SOC.

194. RW-2 has asserted that CTP-1 and CTP-2 could be executed in parallel
till track linking. However, omitted that the Respondent delays has
disrupted the planned sequence of construction in CCP with associated

delay impacts. ~~

34 IRB Financial: Clause 5
35 Para 27/RW-2


53

195, RW-2 has further asserted that CTP-2 was more quantity intensive,
difficult and challenging than CTP-1. In support thereof, RW-2 has set
out certain details%* of CTP-2 and compared it with CTP-1. Ihave already

dealt with the said facts and contentions in paragraphs hereinabove. The

simultaneously as planned in the CCP.

196. The CCP is formulated on the consideration that the Track skeleton of

- ay section will commence only after the Formation of that section
_eotaprising Earthwork, Major and Minor structures) is completed up to
ie -hrmaton level. The Track skeleton of Bhagega - Dabla was the first

J spenity section. The Time for Completion of Formation of various

5

_& 60S as ¢tions was formulated such that they are completed prior to arrival of

NTC at that location. If the Formation of priority section is delayed with
associated delay in commencement of Track skeleton, it will have a
similar impact on the arrival of NTC at various sections. Therefore, delay
if any caused to the completion of Formation of any section, up to the
date on which NTC actually arrive at this location will not influence the
Time for Completion, as the revised Time for Completion is extended
due to the delay caused to the Track skeleton resulting from the delay
impact of priority section. It is therefore inappropriate to construe that
the Claimant can progress the Formation work of packages independent
to the progress of Track linking in CTP-1. The Claimant disagree with
the contention that there is not dependency of activities for the
completion of CTP-1 and CTP-2 when the Track skeleton was to be

completed with one NTC and common Track resources.

36 Para 28-34/RW-2 ; fa

ee
(


4

fo
a

i 54
\O vv

197. Before dealing with RW-2’s assertions that there was Sisihant

mismanagement of CTP-237, I would first clarify that there is only one

198.

37 Para 35 to 38/RW-2 : -v, “i Ee a

38 Table in Para 37/RW-2 fB -

“Project” which is Combined CTP-1 and 2. There is no “Project CTP-2”

as referred to by RW-2. I state that there is no mismanagement by the

Claimant of CTP-2, as alleged by RW-2.

RW-2 is comparing?’ commencement dates of activities for the Section -

Rewari to Madar and from Madar - Iqbalgarh as in CCP with the actual

progress of work as on 31 August 2016 to assert that Claimant has

b)

¢)

d)

delayed the execution of the work in the section from Madar - Iqbalgarh

* gn account of the following:

RW-2's comparison does not consider the impact of Respondent
delay events accrued up to 31 August 2016 (detailed in SOC) to
the progress of work.

Not only does the comparison omit Respondent delay events
accrued up to 31 August 2016 but also the revised dates
determined by Engineer extending Time for Completion of MS-
3 considering the said events.

As per EOT Determination, the work of CTP-1 was extended up
to 16 October 2017 and that of CTP-2 up to 11 October 2018. The
EOT Determination has been agreed upon by the parties.

I further state that Time for Completion of these sections were

further extended because of the continuing delay events.


200.

201.

202.

203.

204.

205.

to be completed first and then progress towards CTP-2. Pertinently, even

RW-2 has admitted that the works had to be taken up ina planned and

phased manner as set out in CCP.

With the execution of work delayed due to various Respondent delay
events, the Claimant undertook work to facilitate Track Skeleton works
at the earliest, which was a critical activity for the timely completion of
MS-3. Therefore, assuming RW-2’s statement regarding Claimant's
alleged concentration in CTP-1 is correct, as the same was a requirement

to ensure that the Track skeleton is progressing.

Claimant was prevented from commencing Track skeleton of the section
Bhagega - Dabla due to the facts set out in my Witness Statement dated
07 July 2023. As a mitigation measure, Claimant commenced Track
skeleton of Bhagega - Shrimadopur as the section Bhagega - Dabla had
more hindrances than Bhagega - Shrimadopur at that time.

In view of the above, RW-2’s contention that Claimant commenced CTP-

2 after significant lag/ delay is incorrect.

The contention of RW-2 that CTP-2 was more challenging than CTP-1 is
of no relevance. Pertinently, Claimant completed work in CTP-2 within
the extended Time for Completion. In reality, MS3 portion of CTP-2 was
completed prior to that of CTP-1.

Evidently, no situation in CTP-2 was aggravated by the alleged non-

performance of the Claimant. On the other hand, it was only the


56

Respondent's delays which led to deficient progress in CTP-2 duting the

scheduled period of completion.

ot
a

206. Istate that there was no delay by the Claimant in Preliminary works and
Site-establishment as alleged.

207. Contrary to RW-2’s assertions in para 39 of its WS, the Claimant has, in
Exhibit C-134 demonstrated that the resources like Crusher, Batching
plant etc required for commencement of the work (in the available front)
had already been mobilised. Commissioning of some of the plants was

delayed due to reasons beyond Claimant's control.

208. I further state that the Claimant has also demonstrated“ that delay in
commissioning of these resources, for reasons not attributable to the

Claimant, has not impacted the Time for Completion. Commencement

work was already delayed due to various Respondent's delays. In this
d, I state the following: ;
Due to Change in Law requiring EC for mining of Stone/
boulder, approval for mining of stones from the quarries
identified in CCP was delayed. Consequently, mobilisation and
commissioning of stone crushers were delayed.
b) In view of Change in Law, Claimant sought EC for all quarries
identified by it from SEIAA/ SEAC. Subsequent to stay of the
process of EC by the Hon’ble NGT, Claimant had to demobilise
some of the crushers and move to quarries having a EC or for
which EC was not required. I have annexed herewith as Exhibit

CW-1/36, a statement depicting the status of oe ea of
Ca

crushers in CTP-1&2. ot ad
ee “< a x CG
39 para 39-42/RW-2 a eve ao”
40 Exhibit C-134 ney, ps ) .

209.

ae

211.

212.

213.

214.

57

Despite EC for quarries being granted only in February 2015, Claimant
had commenced production of aggregate from June 2014 based on the
limited availability of boulders. Claimant also procured aggregates from

open market to meet the likelihood requirements.

A pene of Exhibit R-298 would reveal that the mobilisation of the

Casting yards at various locations were intended for pre-casting of
segments inter alia RUB boxes, retaining walls and superstructure
(girders) of major structures etc. The commencement of RUB and
associated retaining walls and MJBs were delayed due to the
Respondent delays stated in SOC. Hence, the alleged delay in providing
the casting yards has not impacted any delay to the Time for

Completion/planned productivity of works in CTP-2.

RW-2’s contention that Claimant has delayed the preliminary works and

site establishments is incorrect.

The facts pertaining to “Mix Design” of concrete and its approval has
been raised by the Respondent for the first time in RW-2’s WS.

This Contract used grades of concrete ranging from M15 to M50 as per
the design approved by the Engineer/ Respondent/ IR/ Authorities.

For these * grades of SE, Se of mix was S required. As the

he
JAI.


58

fe

Med
in the work, which, in turn, required submission of alterriate Concrete

design mix and its approval. \

215. Pending finalization of source of materials (fine and coarsé aggregate).
due to the Change in Law and Stay to the process of EC, the Claimant,
after field trials with the materials obtained from the available sources
submitted various design mixes since 07 August 2014. The design of
mixes has to be continued with the change in the sources post approval
of EC pursuant to the Claimant's endeavour to explore alternate sources
of materials. Approval of the mix was granted August 2014 onwards.

Such approvals continued up to 2018 as the sources of material were

hanged from time to time. Further trial mixes were done by the
-(laimant depending upon the change in source of material and reasons

eyond in its control such as ban to the mining of river sand ordered by

the same is enclosed as Exhibit CW- 1/38. Submissions of design mix as
per the alternate sources is well within the terms of the Contract and

cannot be construed as a Claimant delay event.

216. RW-2 assertions‘! regarding Claimant’s delays in execution of

Earthwork is incorrect.

217. Claimant has taken over site “as is” provided by the Respondent
without any delay. Claimant has not delayed taking over of land due to
inadequate resources/ improper planning / mobilisation etc. as alleged.

In this regard, I state the following:

at?
‘a av o
Para 43 to 47/RW-2 Pp ; ye) o
eT ) INS
NOTP er” SS
RiP eS


218.

219.

220.

q

ee Exhibit - CW1/39.

Site handed over was with encumbrances. This was notified by

df time are covered in Exhibit
Fo

the Claimant at the relevant time. Letters / notices etc is exhibited
as (Ref) evidencing that the site handed over was with
encumbrances.

c) Joint records of obstructions/ encumbrances in the handed over
section. Copies of RFIs are annexed herewith as Exhibit CW-1/25,

d) Letters evidencing that the section Ch 53500 - 53000 [IR Ch - 300
to 300.4], Ch 56600 - 53500 [IR Ch - 298 to 300] and Ch 10200 -
10560 [IR Ch - 548.8 to 549.2] was handed over only on 21.03.2017,
02.02.2019 and 22.02.2020 respectively are annexed and marked
as Exhibit C-46.

Commencement of earthwork in CTP-2 was delayed due to number of
delay events inter alia (a) delay by Respondent in approval of Plan and
Profile (b) non-handing over land/ encumbrances in the handover land
(c) Change in Law requiring EC for mining of earth from borrow pits for
filling which was contributing approximately 87% of total filling and
stay to the process of EC by NGT etc. The same has been elaborated in
Para 216-226 /Rejoinder.

The above elements have been considered by the Engineer in the
assessed EOT Determination. The contention of the Respondent that
Claimant has delayed the commencement of work due to lack of

mobilisation is unfounded.

The Table in Para 44 also omits comparison of Respondent delay events

accrued up to 31 August 2016 and the revised dates determined by

JAIPUR

le A Wo ude


60

Engineer extending Time for Completion of MS-3 considering the.said

ee

events.

221. Table under Para 44 relied on by the Respondent has not taken into effect
the delay caused to the commencement of work due to various

Respondent delays and the statement is accordingly corrected and

annexed as Exhibit CW -1/40

222. Delay in commencement of Earthwork from that envisaged in the CCP

was due to the Respondent delays as set out in SOC. The contention that

the delay is due to deficient deployment and engagement of Sub

tractors and delay in blanketing works over completed

om

ankment/ subgrade etc is incorrect#2.
state that the following are the relevant points:

224. It was a requirement that Earthwork of section shall be completed fully
and in contiguity as per the sequence of track linking, for the
commencement and execution of track linking. In other words, the

objective was to develop the formation in contiguity.

225. Exhibit R-300 relied on by the Respondent list out Piece rate workers
(PRW) employed by Claimant for Earthwork at various sections.
Components of Earthwork inter alia include Earthwork in filling from

borrow pits and Earthwork in cutting in patches scattered all across the

project.
Ae
a c,
“para 46 -47/RW-2 A 5 Red
P ear?
N
a
\e


226.

227.

228.

229.

230.

231.

232.

61

| 4a \ ‘ i
come of Earthwork in filling in Ci ‘could have been
RK ae

: Ss 0”. :
ensured only with earthwork from borrow’ pits-as it constitutes more

than 87% of the total fill quantity.

Commencement of Earthwork in filling was delayed due to the
requirement of EC prior to extraction of earth form borrow pits and stay

to the process of EC by the NGT.

It was only on 26 November 2014, the approval to commence Earthwork
from borrow pits up to a depth of 1.5 m without EC was allowed in the
state by way of an amendment to the Rajasthan mines and minerals
rules, which came into effect pending order of the NGT on its ban to EC

for mining of minerals as per MOEF’s Office Memorandums.

The Engineer has considered the above event of delay was beyond
Claimant's control and accordingly allowed extension of Time for

Completion.

Pursuant to the parties’ acceptance of the Engineer’s EOT Determination
dated 30 October 2017, the Time for Completion of Earthwork in CTP-2
was extended from 17 November 2016 (CCP) to 05 June 2017 when
commencement of Earthwork in filling from borrow pits was reckoned

to be from 12 December 2014.

Actual mobilisation of PRW was streamlined by Claimant in accordance

with the delay being caused to the commencement of Earthwork.

Claimant however, deployed Own / hired resources to undertake the

work in the available fronts.


233.

234.

235.

236.

238.

239,

3 Para 48 -49/RW-2

62

Therefore, the contention of the Respondent that Claimant has delayed

mobilisation of resources is inappropriate.

There are no reported incidents of Subcontractors stopping the work due

to untimely / delayed payments.

On the contrary, it was the Respondent who did not admit interim

payments as per the terms of the Contract which resulted in a separate i rad Me

arbitration proceeding whereby, an award was rendered in favour of the i
K
X

Claimant.

The contentions regarding alleged delay of resources have been dealt
with in Para 230-241/Rejoinder. The Claimant has filed Exhibit C-145
Exhibit _C-143 (Colly) and Exhibit C-126 establishing adequacy of

resources.

There was no delay in Blanketing works over completed embankment/
subgrade.

I reiterate that development of Formation (comprising Earthwork
[including Embankment, Subgrade, Blanket], Minor and Major
structures) completed up to formation level in continuity was a
requirement for unhindered execution of Track skeleton work. As per
CCP, Track skeleton of a section shall commence only when the

Formation of that section is completed.

Due to the delayed handing over of land, hindrances, non-completion of
Major and Minor structures due to Respondent's delay etc. Claimant

had to carry out the Earthwork in cutting and filling anagabigiade in the


240.

241.

242.

243.

244.

63

available patches up to 31 August 2016. led to development of
section in discontinuity whereas Track linking requires continuous

developed formation.

From Annexure 7.2 of the Engineer’s assessment of extension of time
(Exhibit R-160), itis evident that Earthwork in filling and subgrade in all
sections were in progress in CTP-2. It was not the case that subgrade of
8 sections in CTP-2 has been completed as on 31 August 2016 and
blanket was not started.

Pursuant to the Respondent delays, Claimant attempted to progress
Blanket in sections completed in contiguity to enable Track skeleton
work in sequence and laying of Blanket in isolated and discontinued
sections is avoided to some extent. It is also pertinent to mention that as
on 31 August 2016, NTC was undertaking the Track skeleton work in
CTP-1.

In the month of September 2015, since the Claimant could not develop
Bhagega - Dabla in contiguity as required in CCP due to various
Respondent delays, the Claimant had commenced track skeleton work

from Bhagega to Shrimadopur as a mitigation measure.

As per the revised sequence of construction, after completion of track
skeleton from Bhagega - Shrimadopur, track skeleton shall progress
towards Rewari to complete MS-1, as completion of MS-1 ahead of MS-

3 was a requirement of the Contract.

As per the assessment of EOT, Earthwork of Package-C (Ch. 285.to 435)
shall be completed by 12 February 2017 and that in the section
Swarupganj - Shriamirgarh shall be completed on 29 May 2017 when

ATTESTE

JAaALIC

Ni)
JAIPUR (RAJ ) IND:

- 4 AUG 2023

Namal?


245.

246.

248.

249,

# Para 50 —54/RW-2

64

impact of delay events as 31 August 2016 was considered. Therefore, as
on September 2015 the Claimant could not have complete the blanket in
CTP-2 section as required in CCP.

The Table appearing under Para 49 of witness statement (RW-2) does not

represents the factual position. Corrected position is annexed as Exhibit

CW-1/41.

The contentions regarding alleged delay in blanketing have been dealt \

with in Para 222-226, 231-233, 239, 269, 313 and 359/Rejoinder. The ;
Claimant has filed the chart comparing blanket progress vis-a-vis front "

for NTC and Actual Track Linking along with supporting documents
annexed herewith as Exhibit C- 168 (Colly) in this regard.

There was no Claimant's delays in execution of Major Structures, as

alleged“.

The Technical Design of the structures was to be approved by the
Engineer / Respondent for the commencement and construction of
Major structures. As per Clause 3.1 of ER (Design), the span
configuration of Major and Important bridges shall be approved by IR.
It was also a requirement that the Engineer’s consent/ NONO to the span
configuration was to be issued after approval by IR and such approval
will be obtained by the Respondent.

The Technical Design of MJB will commence only after the Engineer’s
consent / NONO to the Span configuration as approved by IR.

STM erg


250.

251.

252.

253.

254.

45 Para 55 — 59/RW-2

approval / NONO to GAD of Major and Important bridges in CTP-2

was delayed. There was delay in approval of Span configuration / GAD,
by Engineer / Respondent / IR and resulted in the Technical Design of
MJB/IMB, which in turn delayed commencement of the MJBs/ IMBs. In
this regard, Claimant rely on Exhibit C-138 which sets out delays to the
Major and Important bridges.

A perusal of the Exhibit C-138, would reveal that Claimant could not

have commenced Major bridges in CTP-2 before 24 August 2015 as the
Technical Design of Major bridges delayed up to that date. Therefore,
delay to the execution of Major bridges is not attributable to Claimant as

alleged by the Respondent.

The contentions regarding alleged delay in execution of Major
Structures have been dealt with in Para 242 to 264 /Rejoinder. The
Claimant has filed the exhibits being Exhibit C- 122 and Exhibit C- 146
to Exhibit C- 166 in this regard. Claimant's analysis in respect of MJB,

IMB, Viaduct and RFO along with correspondences has been filed as

Exhibit C-138 (Colly).

There was no Claimant's delays in execution of Minor Structures, as
alleged*5. The contentions regarding Claimant's delay to execution of

Minor Structures has been detailed in paragraph 265 to 269/Rejoinder

Delay caused to the commencement and construction of RUBs is
detailed in the SOC, paragraph 281 to 288/Rejoinder and my Witness
Statement dated 07 July 2023. Claimant's analysis of Respondent's delay


66

in design and construction of RUBs along with cortespondences and

supporting documents has been filed as Exhibit c-f39(Colly).

255. In this regard, the following summary particulars aréieiterated:

a) | Coordination with IR was not the Claimant's responsibility, as

alleged

b) On05 November 2014, the Respondent instructed Claimant to
obtain the IR’s approval to GAD showing integrated
arrangement of RUBs on IR & DFCC tracks prior to
commencement of construction of RUB.
Due to the new requirement, all the design / documents
submitted up to 05 November 2014 became redundant and the

design of RUB had to be recommenced.

It was requirement that RUB on IR side conjoint with that on

DFCC side shall be constructed simultaneously with RUB on

DFCC side, which was not fulfilled by the IR/ Respondent. This

in turn delayed the commencement of construction of RUB.

e) The Claimant has filed the status of execution of RUBs as on 31
August 2016 as Exhibit C-39 and Exhibit C-131. A perusal of
Exhibit C-39 and Exhibit C-131 would reveal that the Claimant
had to obtain approval of integrated GAD of 120 no of RUBs in
CTP-2, however, the approval was delayed by 17 September
2020.

f) Pursuant to above, from 08 January 2016 the Respondent issued
token approval for the Integrated GAD for such RUBs the
approval of which was delayed by IR till such time.

g) It is pertinent to mention that, 71 RUBs, the work of which was

commenced as per the token approval given by th pondent,


STAR
o' +

cate *
Ut (arin
i je Uy
had to be modified as per the IGAD approved by IR\Gap aw
| date and to this effect Exhibit CW-1/42 is relevant. “Se”
GT

h

h). Commencement of 45 RUBs was delayed due to non-
c vA, construction of conjoint RUB by IR.
. i) Besides the above, 100% completion of 29 RUBs in CTP-2 was
impossible even on 31 August 2016 due to unavailability of land
for approach road.

j Up to 31 August 2016, 03 RUBs were added to the Contract.

256. From the above, it is evident that there was no delay in commencement
and construction of RUBs due to lack of planning, inadequate allocation
of resources and shortage of technical staff at the project site, as alleged.

On the contrary, the same evidences the Respondent delays.

257. The contentions regarding alleged Claimant's delay to execution of

Minor bridge has been dealt with in paragraph 289 to 291/Rejoinder.

258. I have set out below the following facts which itself evidences that it is
inappropirate to construe that there was no delay to the construction of
MIBs.

a) Construction of 800 Minor bridges envisaged in this Contract. It
has been incorrectly asserted that none of the Minor bridges was
affected by Respondent delays.

b) — Span configuration of 144 number Minor bridges varied with
that provided in the ER.

c) Commencement of 24 number of MIBs could not be ensured due
to non - handing over of site/ land and other reasons beyond
Claimant's contract.

d) Construction of 19 number of MIBs were affected due to its

infringement with IR. 96 number of MIBs were given interim

NOPA
JAIPUR ¢

68

payment on part completion due to reasons not attributable to
Claimant. Statement annexed as Exhibit CW-1/43 is relevant in
this regard.

e) The assessment of extension of Time for Completion as on 31
August 2016 was based on dominant delay event. Hence, the
delay impact of Minor bridges was not a consideration of EOT.

f) As such the hindrances to Minor bridges was not reflected in the.”
MPR for the month of August 2016. j

b
i
259. Besides the above, as on 31 August 2016, NTC was completing track
Skelton work in CTP-1. Therefore, the alleged delay in completion of
Minor structure in CTP-2 would not have impacted the delay in

completion of Contract.

In addition to the above, Formation of the sections in CTP-2 was already

delayed due to the delay caused to other components such as RUBs,

Major Bridges and Earthwork etc.

261. Letter dated 29 January 2016 relied on by RW-2 for Slow Progress is
inaccurate since it does not take into account the impact of various
Respondent delays. Claimant has filed its response to slow progress
notices and Engineer’s acceptance of Claim notices in this regard as

Exhibit C-143 (Colly) and Exhibit C-144 (Colly) respectively.

262. There was no Claimant’s delays in execution of Track works, as

alleged*.

46 Para 60-65/RW-2


Shy

» ®& ee % iG
263. The contentions regarding alleged Claimant's “delay Ttoexécution of

eon

Track Work including alleged initial delay in mobilization of the NTC
Machine, assertions that average rate of progress was less than planned,
alleged slow progress due to purported insufficiency of NTC Machine/
Track materials/ Labour track linking etc. have been dealt with in
paragraph 292 to 364/Rejoinder. The Claimant has already filed Exhibit
C- 143 (Colly), Exhibit C- 145 (Colly), Exhibit C- 167 (Colly) to Exhibit
C-175.

The facts set out below itself evidence the incorrectness of RW2’s

assertions.

a) CCP envisaged that the track skeleton in CTP-2 shall commence
on 23 February 2016 to complete it by 06 February 2017.

b) ‘The table referred in Para 63 of RW-2 compares the actual
progress with that planned in the CCP as above.

c) The planned progress of work in the CCP was vitiated by the
Respondent delays.

d) Duly considering the impact of delay events accrued up to 31
August 2016, the Engineer assessed that the track skeleton of
CTP-2 shall commence on 16 October 2017 to complete it by 11
October 2018.

e) This assessment was accepted by the Parties.

265. Pursuant to above it is apparent that comparison of progress of
subordinate activities of Track skeleton such as supply of rails, Sleeper,
Ballast etc., as on 31 August 2016 with CCP and construing that the

actual progress is negligible is incorrect.


266.

267.

SS
a
= zs
22g
Beet
Se Sn
Sen
= pet
B25
2 74

270.

70

Claimant is entitled to commence the track skeleton of CTP-2 from 16
October 2017 as per the approved EOT as on 31 August 2016, provided

all delay events were concluded on the said date.

In view of the above, it is evident that RW-2’s assertion that there was
failure by the Claimant in complying with essential factors in the table
up to 31 August 2016 or that the said factors significantly impacted the

progress of the track works or led to delays in the overall project timeline .-

is incorrect. [
i
1a

Even if procurement and production of track materials is

independent activity, unhindered procurement of these components FS z

ed to the track skeleton being undertaken per day.

production and storage of sleepers for the project required, is
oportionate to the progress of track skeleton, as the requirement
dependent on the actual progress. As on 31 August 2016, the NTC was
undertaking track skeleton in CTP-1 section and as per the approved
EOT the track skeleton of CTP-2 will commence only 16 October 2017.
Therefore, RW-2’s basis to allege shortfall in production of sleepers with

respect to production of requirements in CCP is flawed.

In view of facts set out in paragraph above, the contention that Claimant
has delayed commissioning of Marwar sleeper plant up to 21 October
2016 and delayed procurement of FBW plants etc., by virtue of such
delays only, the track skeleton in CTP-2 was delayed is incorrect. RW-2
omitted that, as per CCP, 2 FBWs mobilised in Bhagega shall move to
Marwar after completion of track skeleton in CTP-1 from Bhdgega depot
which was delayed as Claimant could not complete tragkeleton as per

4
CCP due to various Respondent delay events. iu


271.

274.

275.

276.

Ape sa tt
The Claimant was not required to and could not keep sléepefs| welded
rails and the ballast formation in continuous stretches of 1.5 TKM/ day
at CTP-2 as per CCP, when status as on 31 August 2016 was considered.
This was especially when the Claimant was prevented from completing
continuous stretches of formation covered with ballast for track

skeleton.

Contrary to RW-2’s assertions, there is no acknowledgement of delay by
the Claimant in Para No. 328 of the Rejoinder.

I reiterate that there is neither any deficiency nor any delay in the
procurement and production of track materials solely attributable to the
Claimant, as alleged. On the contrary, Sleepers available with Claimant
were sufficient to meet track skeleton of the available fronts in sequence
and the alleged unavailability of Track materials had no impact / delay
to the track skeleton work in CTP-2. In this regard, the following facts

are to be noted:

As is evident from the MPRs, by July 2016, the Claimant had completed
68.3 Tkm of track skeleton in CTP-1 and further track skeleton in CTP-1
was progressing piecemeal. Even at the said point in time, the Claimant
had a stock of 1,82,886 sleepers to complete 110.17 TKm of track skeleton
in CTP-1.

Since the track skeleton of CTP-1 was not completed even on 31 August
2016 due to Respondent delays, the production of sleepers from Marwar

plant was of no assistance to complete MS-3.

It is further is evident from the contemporaneous record (MPRs) that it

was only on 30 January 2019 the NTC could arrive at Saradhana -


42

Bangurgram post completing the track skeleton work in Rewari to
Madar section of CTP-1 (excluding track skeleton works held up at
portions such as Kathuwas and Thotwal). At the said point in time also,
the Claimant had a stock of 1,42,069 sleepers to complete 85.58 Tkms of

track skeleton work in CTP-2

277. Itis evident from the above and the facts/events upto June 2018 set out
in Exhibit C- 171, the execution of the track work was not delayed due

to unavailability of the sleeper.

ere was no delay by the Claimant in Production and Spreading of

Ballast, as alleged?’.

280. As per CCP, laying of ballast in the section Marwar - Chandawal (1st
section of CTP-2 for track linking) shall commence on 14 November 2015
to complete the same by 06 April 2016. The track skeleton in the section

Marwar - Chandawal was to commence on 23 February 2016.

281. However, as per the EOT Determination (as on 31 August 2016) accepted
by the parties, the ballast stacking and spreading shall commence on 25
August 2016 to complete the same on 08 January 2017 but to commence
the track skeleton on 16 October 2017 (i.e., approximately 9 months after

ballast spreading is completed).

47 Para 75 — 82/RW-2


282.

283.

284.

285.

286.

287.

Bhagega - Dabla (CTP-1) and Earthwork of CTP-2 sections were
progressing (Refer Attachment 7.2 of EOT assessment).

Therefore, the contention that no ballast laying was done in CTP-2 till
August 2016 to facilitate Track linking, due to Claimant delay is

incorrect.

I reiterate that commencement and completion of Major and Minor
bridges (RUB was delayed due to the Respondent delays).
Commencement of RUB in the section Marwar Chandawal (priority
section for track linking in CTP-2) was delayed up to 11 September 2017
(delay in approval of IGAD) and due to non-construction of IR RUB up
to Nov-2017, non-handing over of land for Approach Road up to Jul-
2020.

Commencement of MJB/IMB in this section was delayed up to 13 May
2016 due to delay in approval of design / drawings by the Engineer /
Respondent / IR etc.

Even if Respondent's statement that on an average, MJB/IMB require
15 to 2 years for its completion is considered, the completion of the MJB
in this section was delayed beyond 31 August 2016 as the approval of
GAD was delayed by the Respondent/IR, which delay cannot be
attributable to Claimant.

In addition to the above, land related encumbrances in various sections
of CTP-2 have led to development of formation in discontinuity with

associated delay in commencement and completion of track work.


74

288. In view of the above, it is evident that the contention that the
discontinuity and gaps were due to insufficient resources and delayed

design submissions are incorrect.

289. The table in Exhibit R-304 does not support the statements in paragraph
78. Exhibit R-304 refers to the days on which the NTC has not worked in
the period September 2015 to December 2018 and reasons assigned
thereto. Considering impact of delay events as on 31 August 2015, track ,”
skeleton shall commence only from 05 March 201648 Exhibit C-18
Further, the inappropriateness of which has been clarified in Exhibit ¢-

168. X
% a

290. Spreading of ballast in complete sections in CTP-2 up to 31 August 2016

was a physical impossibility as there was no continuity of various

2 ibrances in the handed over section, delay caused to the
(| 2 = ork due to Change in Law and NGT stay, delay caused to the
=*

eading was accordingly refixed for the sections in CTP-2 from 25
December 2016 (CCP Finish) to 14 July 2017 (EOT finish duly
considering the impact of delay events accrued up to 31.08.2016).

291. Besides the above, as on 31 August 2016, NTC was engaged in CTP-1 for
undertaking and completing the track skeleton of CTP-1.

292. Therefore, the contention that had the Claimant completed ballast
spreading in CTP-2 in advance, it would rather facilitate the NTC

movement as more stretches would be available to NTC machine fee ‘
« <
4 e

48 Exhibit C-184.


i * (

ON 6, 90 No. a r*
Track skeleton work is arbitrary, incorrect and not based ON eae Hietah, of
> y

oY

position prevailing. My OF me. j
Rags es

293, There was no delay by the deficient mobilization of NTC & other Track
Machines by the Claimant, as alleged.*9

294. It was only after review by the Engineer/ Respondent, Clause 8.3
programme of the Claimant was consented to as Contractual
Construction Programme (CCP). CCP superseded all other programmes

submitted earlier and shall be deemed to be the programme on which

Claimant has based his Accepted Contract Amount and in accordance
with which Claimant shall execute the Works within the specified Time

for Completion.

295. Clause 8.3 programme was formulated reckoning completion of Track
work of the whole section with one NTC, which was accepted as CCP.
The Engineer’s determinations, statements in the SOD and RWS are all
basis the CCP.

296. Having accepted the Claimant's detailed time program with one NTC as
CCP, the unsubstantiated opinions and contentions of RW-2 regarding
reasonableness of 2 NTC or his reliance on the post bid queries is
incorrect. No such objection was raised at the time of accepting the

detailed time program. I reiterate my statements made hereinbefore.

297. The rate of production of various components of track skeleton as
provide in Exhibit R-72 and R-81 was those arbitrarily fixed by the
Engineer and not based on the assessed Time for Completion duly

considering the impact of various delay events accrued up to that date.

49 Para 83 — 88/RW-2


76

Claimant had accordingly notified the incorrectness of the Engineer’s
assessment vide various letters/ notices, the details of which is

summarised as Exhibit C-143.

298. The requirement of providing additional NTC was raised by the
Respondent/Engineer referring to the requirements in the Technical
Bid. This was objected to by the Claimant at the relevant time referring _
to (a) approval of the Time programme as CCP with one NTC (b) the
inadequacy of the work front to deploy 2 NTC at the contemporane jus

time. Iam submitting the details of hindrances to Formation work in

section Marwar - Chandawal and Marwar - Jawali, adjacent to Marwi

VEC = depot in CTP-2 as Exhibit CW-1/44 which is relevant in this context.
QY/s =28
& =3 9. Pursuant to the continued insistence of the Engineer/ Respondent,
H2z BH Claimant mobilised additional NTC in CTP-2 at Marwar not as part of

Claimant’s Contractual obligations but only as an endeavour to
complete the work ahead of the entitled extension of time. The

correspondences relevant in this regard is exhibited as Exhibit CW-1/45.

300. CCP envisages that the Track skeleton of any section will commence
only after Formation of that section (comprising Earthwork, Major and
Minor structures) is completed up to the Formation level. This was the

requirement to achieve the rated productivity of 1.5 TKm /day.

301. Even up to September 2015, Claimant could not complete Formation of

Bhagega - Dabla in continuity due to various Respondent delay events.

Claimant resorted to commence the Track skeleton from Bhagega - &
aa ©

Shrimadopur as some length of Formation from Bhagega was available ' mi ;
j fa
to mitigate a part of the loss due to idling/ underutilization of track : =
resources. Bhagega - Shrimadopur also could be develop#d on Pe

Z,


from Sep-2015 to Aug-2016 evidencing that Claimant was prevented

from developing the complete section prior to commencement to track
skeleton work is annexed herewith as Exhibit CW-1/46 In addition
thereto, Exhibit C-131 and Exhibit C-139, provides the details of RUBs

which were buried / completed in part and lowering of formation done

in the sections to facilitate Track linking up to 31 August 2016 to

surmount the impact of the Respondent's delay events is submitted.

Declination of average rate of progress of Track skeleton work, if any,

was only due to the above Respondent caused delays.

303. Without making any admission as to Exhibit R-251, Claimant has filed
an analysis (marked as Exhibit C-175) of productivity of NTC per day 7
attained based on the data in Exhibit R-251. Exhibit C-175 would reveal .
that Claimant attained track progress more than 1.5 TKm/ day anumber

of times when the development of formation continuity was ensured.

Following is the summary:

Statement as on Jun-2018 (Cut-off date

Rate of progress oF elaint)

ae CTIP-1 (Sep- | CTP-2 (Dec-2016 to

15 to Jun-18) Jun-18)

More than 1.5 Tkm/ 212 29

day

More than 2 Tkm/ day 15 2

More than 3 Tkm/ day 7 1

304. The slow progress notices issued by the Engineer was without
considering the impact of various delay events accrued from time to

time but based on the target dates arbitrarily fixed by the Engineer/


78

Respondent. The Claimant's replies to the said notices are already filed

as Exhibit C-143.

305. Pertinently, the photographs filed as Exhibit R- 307 neither provide
details or changes or time stamp to enable proper response to be filed

thereto. The photographs appear to be of isolated section where

Claimant was trying to accelerate the progress i

RW-3

306. With reference to the two stretches being CTP-1 & CTP-2 and refer lice

to CTP-1 as “Project: CTP-1”, I reiterate that there was only one Contract».

which was a combined package CTP-1 and CTP-2. In this regard, I

eiterate the contents of paragraph 20 to 28 above.

3 has wrongly asserted that there was mismanagement of works in
TP-1 by the Claimant. In support of its contentions that Claimant has
allegedly delayed the execution of work, RW-3 has compared planned
date of commencement and completion of activities in CTP-1 section ie.,
Rewari to Madar in CCP with the actual progress of work as on 31
August 2016.

308. Such a comparison and the opinion formed thereon is incorrect on
account of the following:

a) | RW-3has not considered the impact of Respondent delay events
accrued up to 31 August 2016 (as detailed in SOC) to the progress
of work.

b) Delay events accrued up to 31 August 2016 led to the Clainggint
being granted extension of Time for Completion of MS&é. J

or,
Ol) / os

Ok

310.

311.

312.

313:

314.

c) As per the Engineer’ s Determination of EOT accepted bysth
parties, the date for completion of work in CTP-1 was extende
up to 16 October 2017. ell

d) The Time for Completion of CTP-1 was extended further

pursuant to continuation of delay events.

In view of the above, the comparison of actual progress as on 31 August
2016 with the planned progress (CCP) to allege Claimant's delay is

incorrect.

RW-3 has asserted, although incorrectly, that there was Claimant's delay

in Preliminary works and Site-establishment.

The contentions regarding alleged Claimant’s delay to Crushers and

Batching Plants have been dealt with in paragraph 192 to 196/Rejoinder.

RW-3’s reliance on letter dated 20 February 2014 to the alleged
shortcomings highlighted therein in fact do not establish any

shortcomings in preliminary work of CTP-1 as alleged

In this regard, I state the following:
a) Site huts in CTP-1 was completed by May 2014 for use by the
Engineer appointed as per the notification dated 23 April 2014.

b) — Claimant has established laboratory at Mounda and Phulera in
CTP-1 on temporary basis in the month of December 2013 to

meet the testing requirement.

The aforesaid 2 issues have been raised only by way of the witness
statement filed by RW-3 and not in the Statement of Defence or

Rejoinder to Counterclaim.


80

315. Exhibit R-309 and R-310 does not reflect the factual position regarding
mobilisation of Crushers, Batching plant and Casting yard. In this regard
Irely on the Clarification provided in para 206 to 212 in Reply Witness
Statement of RW-2 in respect of work in CTP-2, as the clarifications
therein is applicable similar contentions of RW-3 in respect of work int
CTP-1. I also rely on Exhibits CW-1/36 and Exhibits CW-1/37 wi fch

provides the issues associated with mobilization of Crushers, Batching

plant and Casting yard in CTP-1.

316. Evidently, the contention that Claimant has delayed the preliminary

works and site establishments is incorrect.

317. Due to Change in Law and NGT stay, commencement of earth work of

==, sections from Bhagega - Madar was delayed up to December 2014.

/arthwork in the number of sections were also delayed due to delay in
ding over site/ encumbrances in the handed over section.
ommencement and completion of RUBs and MJBs in the section
ewari - Madar were also delayed due to various Respondent delays

with associated delays in completion of Formation in these sections.

318. As Claimant could not complete Formation (comprising Earthwork,
Major and Minor structures completed up to Formation level) in the
section Bhagega - Dabla due to various Respondent delays, it could not
commence the Track Skeleton on the planned dates. Progress in ballast
was to ensure unhindered Track skeleton work, which was already

delayed due to the Respondent delays. :
Ps
raat Cm

319. Therefore, the contention that had the crusher been commissioned on , S

the planned dates, the Claimant could have commenced ind stacked’ Sy


320.

322.

323.

324.

81

Be a ;
Bs é

ballast and as a by-product of ballast, the aggreg (65 for use int concrete

and blanketing could have been mobilised, is incorrect.

Further, a perusal of Exhibit C-171 would reveal that there was no
shortage in Ballast for the Track skeleton work in CTP-1 when status as
on 31 August 2016 was considered. In other words, the execution of the
work was not affected by the alleged shortage of aggregates / blanket /

ballast at any point of time.

In view of the facts stated hereinabove in response to Witness Statement
of RW-2, the allegation that, Claimant has delayed the Concrete mix
design is denied being inappropriate. The issues regarding mix design
have been raised only by way of the witness statement filed by RW-2
and RW-3 and not in the Statement of Defence or Rejoinder to

Counterclaim.

Claimant could not commence the Track Skeleton from Bhagega to
Dabla on 02 January2015 as planned in CCP. As per the approved EOT,
Track skeleton from Bhagega to Dabla was to commence only from 05
March 2016. Therefore, the contention that Claimant has delayed setting
up of Sleeper and Rail production, which affected the Track skeleton is

incorrect.

On the other hand, as a mitigation measure and opposed to the original
sequence of construction, Claimant commenced the Track Skeleton in

CTP-1 from Bhagega to Shrimadopur in September 2015.

Contrary to the Respondent's assertion, there was no delay by the

Claimant in commencement and execution of earthwork. Claimant was


325.

326.

327.

5° Para - 29 to 31/RW-3 a

82

resourced to complete the earthwork as planned within the scheduled

date of completion.

With reference to RW 3’s incorrect assertions®?, I state that

commencement of Earthwork in CTP-1was delayed due to inter alia the

following reasons:

(a) | The Respondent's prior breach of its obligations in handing over
of encumbrance free land/ ROW. VA

(b) Continuing obstructions in the handed-over sections. i

(c) Change in Law in the State of Rajasthan requiring EC priok to
mining of earth from borrow pits (contributing approximately 87% :
of total filling) and stay to the process of EC by the Hon'ble
National Green Tribunal has led to delay in commencement of
embankment with borrow earth.

(d) Gaps in formation due to non-completion of the structures in a
timely and orderly manner as per the sequence of track work due
to reasons attributable to the Respondent

(e) Delay in approval of Plan and Profile

The contentions regarding the alleged Claimant's delay has been dealt
with in paragraph 216 to 229/Rejoinder. The Claimant has also filed

Exhibit C-141 (Colly), Exhibit C-142, Exhibit C-143 (Colly), Exhibit C-
144 (Colly) and Exhibit C-145 (Colly) in support of its statements.

The above elements were considered by the Engineer in the EOT

Determination and Time for Completion of MS-3 was extended. (7


328.

329.

330.

331.

992.

333.

51 Para 32 — 33/RW-3 wen ET ED

£O / 83

{
Therefore, the ie Ok the, Repos dest that Claimant has delayed

the commencement of® work,

Pie 6 lack of mobilisation is

unsubstantiated.

RW-3 has, in the table in paragraph 30, yet again, compared the as
planned dates in CCP for the commencement of earthwork with the
actual dates, without considering the points set out in paragraph 216 -
224 above. The same is incorrect. The table under para no 30 of RW-3 is
inappropriate as do not take into consideration of impact of various
delay events accrued up to 31 August 2016 to the actual date of
commencement of earthwork. In this connection I rely on Exhibit CW-

1/40 vide which the actual position is detailed.

It is evident that delay in commencement of Earthwork from the dates

in the CCP was due to the Respondent delays.

RW has further contended that the major reason for the delay in taking
up Earthwork was due to insufficient deployment/engagement of
Subcontractors and delay in blanketing works over the completed

embankment / subgrade. The said contentions are incorrect.

The contentions regarding alleged insufficient deployment/
engagement of Subcontractors has been dealt with in paragraph 230 to
241 of Rejoinder. The Claimant has also filed Exhibit C-122, Exhibit C-

143 (Colly) and Exhibit C-145 (Colly) in support of its statements.

Following reasons establish that there was no_ insufficient

deployment/engagement of Subcontractors, as alleged5!. The


84

statements made in paragraph 32 by RW-3 is a repetition of such reasons
stated by RW-2 which is appropriately clarified vide para 225 to 235,
following is however reiterated.

a. For the unhindered execution of track linking, continuity Zh

\

developed formation was to be ensured. V/s
Vf Ze.
b. To maintain continuity of developed formation, the earth be 2 2 =.
O\ 3"
s Se.

in filling was to be progressed as earthwork in filling | ag.

contributing 87% of total filling and hence to be met from
borrow pit. Earthwork in filling from borrow pits which was
held up for substantial period due to the Change in Law
requiring EC before extraction of earth from borrow pit and stay
to the process of EC by NGT. It was only by December 2014,
Claimant could commence the earthwork in filling from borrow

“spit as per the mining rule came into force26 November 2014

e Engineer has considered the above event of delay as beyond

ant’s control and accordingly, allowed extension of Time

ngineer’s assessed EOT the Time for Completion of Earthwork
in CTP-1 was extended from 28 January 2016 (CCP) to 05
September 2016 with commencement of Earthwork in filling
from borrow pits reckoned to be from 12 December 2014 in the
EOT.

d. Upon obtaining approval to commence earthwork from borrow
pit since Dec 2014, the Claimant has carried out earthwork in full
pace at all sections of CTP-1 irrespective of other hindrances
prevalent. Claimant’s progress in Earthwork as detatiee S
Annexure 7.02 of EOT is relevant in this regard. x Ee

ys
x


334.

335.

336.

337.

338.

52 Para 34 -41/RW-3 Ps a
La BL

Claimant in accordance with the daly. eae” ‘Prusadl to the

commencement of Earthwork.

f. Claimant however, deployed Own / hired resources to
undertake the work in the available fronts. Exhibit R-312 relied
on by the RW-3 is the details of Piece rate workers (PRW)
employed by Claimant for Earthwork.

In view thereof, the contention of RW-3 that Claimant has delayed the

mobilisation of resources is inappropriate.

There are no reported incidents of subcontractors stopping the work due
to untimely / delayed payments. This is clarified in Para 225 to 235 of
the Reply Witness Statement.

As a matter of fact, there was an earlier arbitration proceeding initiated
by the Claimant being ICC Case No. 23923/HTG wherein the issue of
Respondent not admitting the interim payments as per the terms of the
Contract was in dispute. An award has been passed in favour of the

Claimant which was not implemented by the Respondent .

No delay, as alleged by RW-3®2, to blanketing works over completed
embankment/ subgrade can be attributed to the Claimant. In this

regard, I state the following:

The track linking is done with NTC (and not manually), for which
continuity of developed section is a pre-requisite. It is a requirement of

the accepted programme that the Track linking will commence only after


339.

340.

341.

343.

86

the Formation (comprising Earthwork, Major and Minor structures

completed up to Formation level) is completed.

Due to inter alia the delayed handing over of land, hindrances, non-
completion of Major and Minor structures due to Respondent's delay,
the Claimant had to carry out the Earthwork in cutting and filling and
subgrade in the available patches up to 31 August 2016. This has led to
completion of development of sections in continuity challenging the

laying of track skeleton of NTC unhindered due to discontinuity.

From Attachment 7.2 of the Engineer’s assessment of extension of time
(Exhibit R-160), it is evident that Earthwork in filling and subgrade in all
sections were in progress in CTP-1 as on 31 August 2016.

Construction of subgrade can progress independently without any

rsuant to the Respondent delays, Claimant attempted to progress
Blanket in sections completed in contiguity to enable Track lining with
NTC in sequence so that laying of Blanket in isolated and discontinued
sections is avoided to some extent. This has led to gaps in the progress

between completed subgrade and the blanket layer.

Up to 31 August 2016, the section beyond Dabla towards Rewari and

Pachar to Madar was hindered by the non-completed Major and Minor &
structures, additions / other encumbrances, a reason attributable to the-~; 3 &
Respondent for the gaps in the developed formation. This: in. turn -
affected the progress blanket works. a €


344.

=e)”

wo
iB
a

346.

347.

87

As per CCP, the Track skeleton of the priority sectibir Bitaega - Dabla
will commence only after the complete Formation of this section is
developed. However, as on 31 August 2016, NTC was undertaking the
Track skeleton of this section on as is developed basis as a result of
delays accumulated in the till then. Therefore, the alleged delay in
progress of blanket in other sections would not have impacted delay to
the time for completion as the rate of progress of track skeleton with

NTC could not be optimized due the reasons stated above.

The Respondent's contention that the delay in progress of Blanketing
was due to unavailability of resources is inappropriate and to this effect
the details of resources mobilised for Blanketing up to 31.08.2016 in CTP-
1 month wise is submitted as Exhibit C-122.

Statements made by RW-3 in paragraph 35 is incorrect. The approach
road constructed in CTP-1 was parallel to the alignment. The ROW
handed over for construction was with hindrances / encumbrances.
Shifting of such hindrances was not done by the Respondent. Therefore,
the Claimant had to construct the approach roads in the available
unhindered portion. The poor condition of approach road, if any, was
due to the above said cause. The impact of alleged poor condition of the
approach road to the progress was not an issue raised by the Respondent
at any point of time prior to filing the present witness statement of RW-
3.

Contrary to RW-3’s assertion, Claimant had not suspended the work for
3 months in the monsoon period up to 31 August 2016. In this regard,

Exhibit CW-1/47 is relevant.

sig pos PO

Es

= 4 AU 2H


348.

349.

350.

351.

JAIPUR, (Raj.)
Nt No. 8428

Read.

353.

Sete U5 2026

88

With reference to the statements and table in Paragraph 37, I state the

following:

Upto September 2015, the Claimant could not complete the Formation
(comprising Earthwork, Major and Minor structures) in continuity in the
Bhagega - Dabla section, as planned in the CCP. In this regard, Exhibit
CW-1/46 be referred to. ( '

As a part of section Bhagega - Shrimadopur could be dev Joped. in,

continuity, to mitigate a part of losses, the Claimant commenced the

Track skeleton work from Bhagega to Shrimadopur. Though, as per
CCP, the Track linking of this section shall commence only after the

Formation is completed.

Bhagega - Shrimadopur was also not free from encumbrances / delay

events. To this effect, Exhibit CW-1/46 is relevant.

It is pertinent to mention that, Bhagega -Shrimadhopur comprises
struction of 18 RUBs and 2 Major Bridges. Commencement of RUB

Was\delayed due to the requirement to IR’s approval to the IGAD which
2 delayed up to 21 May 2015 to 02 December 2015. Besides the above
07 September 2015 an additional RUB was instructed at LC88, the
IGAD of was approved only on 16 May 2016. Commencement of 02 RUB
was delayed due to non-construction of RUB by IR which is conjoint
with RUB on DFCC side. As the construction of IR RUB was delayed up
to Dec-2017 by virtue of which Claimant lay the track on part completed
RUB.

2

Commencement and construction of 2 MJB envisaged at thi étion

delayed due to delay by IR in approving the span co: py tion, JO wits
Q

DA Oy 6
LUs3


89

—  Qy
only on 01 May 2015, the GAD of the MJB 17 nd 1OberZoproved by

IR. The Engineer’s consent / NONO to Superstructure of MJB 17 & 19

was issued on 23 April 2015, however vide letter NKC/1508-57 dated 11
August 2015 it was informed that while reviewing the Span arrangement

of bridges elsewhere certain points were observed and Claimant was

| accordingly directed to review such points in relation to MJB 17 & 19.
3 The Engineer’s consent / NONO to Superstructure for the Bridge 17 &
“ 19, was accordingly delayed up to 22 September 2015 and 23 September
2015. It was only after Superstructure design is approved by the
Engineer as above, Claimant could submit the design of bearings which
was approved upto 13 October 2015. By virtue of the design of the
bearings of this bridge was accordingly delayed with resultant delay in
time for completion of bridge. Claimant rely on Exhibit C-138, 139, 179
in this regards. Due to delay in completion of RUBs and MJB as above,
the completion of formation of this section which inturn delayed /

disrupted track skeleton progress with NTC

354, The other sections in CTP-1 were also affected by the Respondent delays.
However, Claimant undertook the work in the available section which

has led to development of sections in discontinuity.

355. The delay in completion of Blanket in CTP-1 was pursuant to such
discontinuity of the developed sections up to September - 2015 which
was unfit for Track linking with NTC.

356. The Table appearing under Para 37 of witness statement (RW-3) does

not depict the correct position in regard to the blanket progress. Factual
position is provided in Exhibit CW-1/41.


357.

358.

360.

361.

90

The blanket is the costliest in the lot, requires protection from the

damages immediately on its laying with ballast layer. Reference be made

_ to Non-Conformance report dated 06 April 2017 which has been filed

herewith as Exhibit C-142. RW-3’s statement that the Blanket layer, if
compacted, appropriately will not subject to damage is incorrect in li

of the above cited NCR dated 06 April 2017. Therefore, the conte

inappropriate.

It is apparent that, while considering the Claimant's pro
earthwork as on 31 August 2016, the Respondent has not taken ini
consideration the impact of Delay Events accrued up to 31 August 2016
and the impact of discontinuity of developed subgrade of a section to
blanket progress.

Had the work been allowed to progress as envisaged in the CCP, a
comparison of progress of Blanket with completed Subgrade would
have been apt. As the situation of work up to 31 August 2016 being very
different from that planned in CCP (as a consequence of the Respondent
delays), comparison of progress of blanket vis-a-vis subgrade to allege

Claimant's delay is incorrect.

Therefore, the contention of the Respondent that the sluggish progress

. of Blanket layer is the resultant effect of insufficient number of pug mills

is incorrect. In this regard, Claimant also relies on Exhibit C-122.

It is reiterated that the objective of simultaneous execution of activities

_ relevant to Formation was to develop Formation in continuity to

facilitate unhindered Track skeleton works as per the planned sequence
a

of construction. Commencement of components of< Formation /

(comprising Earthwork, Major and Minor bridges) in'vapious sections in

d


91

CTP-1 was delayed. This in turn led to the Claimant carrying out such
works on as is available basis with resultant delay / disruption to the

track skeleton works.

362. Therefore, it is not that the Claimant’s non-execution of the work in
different sections has led to the discontinuity, but it is the consequence

¢ of the Respondent delays which hindered the execution of Track linking
A in the manner depicted in the CCP. The Claimant relies on Attachment
7.2 Ss Exhibit C- 16, a perusal of which would reveal that Claimant was

progressing the Earthwork including Blanketing at various sections.

\e As ‘on 31 August 2016, NTC was engaged for Track skeleton from
\ Bhagéga : ~ Dabla after completing the track skeleton of Bhagega -
© shirimiadopur. With one NTC (envisaged in CCP) engaged for track

linking, it was improbable for the Claimant to move NTC to other
sections where blanket is completed to enhance the progress in track

linking when the status as on 31 August 2016 was considered.

364. The contentions regarding alleged Claimant's delay in execution of
Major Bridge is incorrect®?. Claimant rely on the clarifications provided

in para 247 to 252 of the response of the RW-2 above

365. A perusal of the Exhibit C-138 would reveal that’Claimant could not
have commenced Major bridges in CTP-1 before 21 August 2016 as the
Technical Design of Major bridges was delayed upto that date Hence,
delay to the execution of Major bridges is not attributable to Claimant,

as alleged by RW-3.

53 Para 42 —46/RW-3 {


92

366. The delay in finalisation of GAD of 6 Major bridges up to 31 August 2016

and shortfall in progress thereto is not attributable to Claimant.

367. Delay caused to the commencement and construction of RUBs is

detailed in the SOC and my Witness Statement dated 7 July 2013.

368. The said contentions have been dealt with in paragraph 265 to

291/Rejoinder. The Claimant has filed the exhibits Exhibit C- 139
(Colly), Exhibit C- 164, Exhibit C- 165 and Exhibit C- 166 in suppor, of

its statement.

369. As cited in para above, the commencement of RUB was also delayed due
to the varied requirement of IR’s approval to the GAD showing the
integrated arrangements of RUB on DFCC and IR track, ordered since
05 November 2014 and non-construction by IR, the RUB on the IR track

fi C7: . h is conjoint with that on the DFCC side.

Ve e status of Sonsiacnor of RUBs in CTP-1 as on 31 August 2016

s}being annexed herewith as Exhibit C-39 and Exhibit C-139. A

5, rusal of the Exhibit C-39 and Exhibit C-139 would reveal that

QA the Claimant had to obtain approval of integrated GAD of 141

no of RUBs in CTP-1. However, the approval was unduly
delayed.

b) Commencement of 69 numbers of RUBs was delayed due to non-
construction of conjoint RUB by IR.

c) Besides the above, 100% completion of 53 number of RUBs in
CTP-1 was impossible even on 31 August 2016 due to

unavailability of land for approach road. J ep
O >
d) Upto 31 August 2016, 05 RUBs were addeag tre Coptiact in
CTP-1. Pf) wo
ey oes
A ey
A oe av
a ah
Qo
A
eo


93

370. The above being the position, the contention that EOT had been granted
only for few RUBs having some approval issues with IR is incorrect. The
assumptions by the engineer in the EOT Determination has been
detailed in paragraph 187 to 219/SOC And paragraph 148 to 165 of my
Witness Statement dated 7 July 2023.

371. It is to be noted that IGAD of RUBs in CTP-1 were approved from 01

May 2015 and accordingly, commencement of work was delayed.

372. RUBs at LC45/1, LC46/1 and LC13 were in CTP-2 the construction of
“hich: -was not influencing the Track skeleton work as on 31 August
: Though, token approval of IGAD of the RUB at LC45/1 and
6/1 Woe sstied on 25 May 2016, IR apgueva (for RUB at LC45/1,

373. Besides the above, as on 31 August 2016, NIC was engaged for track
skeleton of Bhagega - Dabla. Therefore, the alleged delay, if any, in
completion of Minor structure in CTP-1 would not have impacted the

delay in completion of the Contract

374, The contentions regarding alleged Claimant's delay in execution of
Minor Structures is incorrect. Claimant rely on para 253 to 260 of the
Reply witness statement of RW-2

375. The contentions regarding alleged Claimant's delay to execution of

Track Work including alleged initial delay in mobilization of the NTC

54 Para 47 —51/RW-3 fp oo on

pe q

oR
a

eA NYS WE


94

Machine, assertions that average rate of progress was less than planned,
alleged slow progress due to purported insufficiency of NTC Machine/
Track materials/ Labour track linking etc. have been dealt with in
paragraph 292 to 364/Rejoinder. The Claimant has filed Exhibit C- 143
(Colly), Exhibit C- 145 (Colly) and Exhibit C- 167 (Colly) to Exhibit C- _
175. FA

fi

|
376. CCP envisaged that the track skeleton in CTP-1 shall commence from
Bhagega and progress towards Rewari to complete MS-1 and then
proceed to complete Track skeleton up to Madar (CTP-1).

377. As per the accepted programme the NTC will commence from Bhagega
(Bhagega - Dabla section) on 02 January 2015 and progress in sequence
to complete the Track skeleton of up to Madar (Kishangarh - Madar

: G weection) by 22 February 2016.
ALN

of the requirements for the commencement of Track skeleton with

was the availability of developed Formation (comprising
thwork, Major and Minor structures) completed up to formation
level. Accordingly, CCP envisaged that the Claimant will commence
Track skeleton of any section only after the Formation of that section is

completed.

379. It was envisaged in CCP that Claimant could complete the Formation
from Bhagega to Dabla by 29 November 2014 to commence the Track
skeleton work on 02 January 2015 and will continue with Track linking
unhindered (as per the sequence in CCP) to complete the Track skeleton
of Bhagega - Dabla by 22 March 2015.


95

380. Due to various Respondent delays, Claimant could not commence the

Track skeleton of the section Bhagega - Dabla on the planned date.

381. As per the Claimant's entitlement to the extension of Time for
Completion as on 31 August 2016 accepted by the parties, the Track
skeleton from Bhagega towards Dabla can commence only on 05 March

2016 to complete it on 20 May 2016. In other words, Claimant is entitled

: ji to commence the Track skeleton of CTP-1 from 05 March 2016 instead of

02 January 2015 as planned in CCP when impact of delay events as on
31 August 2016 is considered.

Hiowever, the actual progress in track linking could not be maintained

as‘pe

Yat

t CCP as the requirement of developed Formation as envisaged in
cep could not have been ensured due to various Respondent delays.
Following is relevant in this regard:

“a) ‘The Claimant could not commence the Track skeleton from

Bhagega to Dabla on the planned date due to the Respondent
delay events were continuing even on 31 August 2016. The
details of encumbrances from September 2015 to August 2016 is
set out in Exhibit CW-1/46.

b) From September 2015, the Claimant however commenced the
Track skeleton work from Bhagega to Shrimadopur on as is
available basis being encumbered as a mitigation effort,

Notwithstanding the encumbrances / hindrances in the section.
Exhibit CW-1/46 provide the particulars.

383. In view of the above, the contention that the progress of Track skeleton
was minimal and negligible progress was achieved for certain activities

and are unrelated to delay in site access / design approval etc is

inappropriate.

96

384. Comparison of progress of subordinate activities of Track skeleton in
CTP-1 such as supply of Rails, Sleeper, Ballast layer as on 31 August 2016
with that as per CCP and construing the actual progress as negligible is
unfounded. This is due to the fact that even on 31 August 2016, the
Claimant could not ensure the conditions envisaged in CCP for the
commencement and progress of track skeleton due to various ~
Respondent delays. fi

q

385. The table appearing in Para 55 of the witness statement of RW-3 dork
not take into consideration the effect of various delay events accrued up .

to 31 August 2016 and the revised timeline as per the approved EOT and

hence is inappropriate.

The delay in completion of the Contract is not attributable to the
Claimant as is evident from the Extension of Time assessed by the
Engineer, accepted and implemented by the Respondent. Therefore,

attributing the delay in completion to the Claimant is incorrect.

387. There was no delay by Claimant in Production/ Procurement of Track
Materials as the timelines as per CCP was vitiated by the Respondent

delays and the revised timelines was agreed upon.

388. The dates for procurement of Track materials and fittings stated in the
CCP was to commence track skeleton of CTP-1 section on 02 January
2015 and to complete it by 22 February 2016 as envisaged therein.
However, the commencement and completion of track skeleton in the
CTP-1 section was delayed due to the Respondent delay As, The
Engineer’s assessed EOT as on 31 August 2016 settleth betweewy the

parties is relevant in this regard.


389,

390.

; 391.

392.

393.

394.

395.

97

As per the EOT settled between the parties the track skeléton of Bhagega

- Dabla (the priority section) shall commence only on 05 March 2016 to

‘complete Track skeleton of CTP-1 by 16 October 2017.

This was extended further when the effect of continuing delay events

was considered in future assessments of EOT.

Due to the reasons stated in para 201 to 202, 242-243 and 322-323 above,
the Claimant commenced track skeleton from Bhagega -Shrimadhopur

as a mitigation measure.

Claimant could complete track skeleton of Bhagega - Shrimadhopur on
27 July 2016 due to various Respondent delay events.

Production and procurement of Track materials, even if an independent
activity, but its progress is linked to the availability of continuous work
front to lay Track linking. As on 31 August 2016 Claimant had 3,25,192
nos of Sleepers and 96,755 MT of Rails, which was sufficient to lay Track
skeleton of 195.9 TKm.

Therefore, with the unavailability of work front as planned in CCP ie.,
to lay at least 1.5 TKm/day continuously unhindered, it is incorrect to
allege that the delay in Track linking is attributable to alleged delay in
mobilisation of Sleeper plant, FBW, maintaining of Sleepers, Track
fittings / welded rails as per CCP by the Claimant.

RW-3 has alleged, although incorrectly, of Claimant’s poor planning of
Predecessor activities. In view of the facts stated above, as against the
planned commencement date of 02 January 2015 for the track skeleton,

the time for completion was revised to 05 March 2016 when stqtus as on
a ee

€ %


396.

400.

401.

98

31 August 2016 was considered. To mitigate the part of the delay,
claimant has commenced track skeleton of Bhagega - Shrimadhopur
since 24 September 2015. As stated elsewhere, track skeleton of Bhagega

- Shrimadhopur was not commenced after the said section is fully

developed as required in CCP. Therefore, the completion of track
Va

skeleton of the said section was delayed up to Jul-2016.

Therefore, the contention that Claimant's poor decision for commencing

eh
LN

NY;

the Track laying from a different section is inappropriate.
There is no delay in Production and Spreading of Ballast, as alleged.

Despite the delays due to the requirement of EC due to the Change in
law and inspite of pendency of stay to the process of EC by Hon’ble
NGT, the Claimant commenced production of aggregates and ballast
since June 2014. Exhibit CW-1/36 refer to.

Besides the above, to meet the requirement of ballast, Claimant has
procured ballast from various suppliers and to this effect the LOI issued
to various suppliers is relevant. Exhibit C (Colly) of document request

refer to.

As on 31 August 2016, Claimant had stock of ballast to lay 401 Tkm of
track. Quantum of ballast being produced and procured is recorded in

MPR.

This Contract being a design build lump sum and no separate

measurement and payment is applicable for the ballast being stacked at

site, therefore, no register for the ballast is maintained by Claimants: ©

the monthly production is recorded in the MPR. ee

y


402.

403.

404.

405.

406.

407.

99

Discontinuity of section as on 31 August 2016 is Nee the.dé vy caused to
the commencement of Earthwork due to the Chang AW, ‘stay by
Hon'ble NGT, delay to the commencement of RUBs and delay to the
Engineer’s consent / NONO to Major bridges. In this regard, Exhibit C-

131 is relevant.

RW-3 seeks to rely upon Exhibit R-304 to alleged Claimant's delay in
design submissions and insufficient resources. However, Exhibit R-304
is in respect of purported details of days on which the NTC has not
allegedly worked. Clarification provided in para 289 to 299 are

reiterated.

There was no deficient mobilization of NTC and other Track Machines,

as alleged.

The Claimant has imported NTC in parts up to December 2014 at
Bhagega, which had to be assembled and commissioned. Assembling
and commissioning of NTC at Bhagega required a continuous
developed Formation for more than 1 Km, which was not readily
available due to hindrances / encumbrances in the Formation from

Bhagega - Dabla and Bhagega - Shrimadopur.

Upon development of Formation from Bhagega to Shrimadopur in
continuity for the required length, assembly of NTC was done. It was
only by September 2015, Claimant could commence the Track skeleton

towards Shrimadopur after commissioning of NTC.

It is pertinent to mention that as per the Engineer’s assessment of EOT,

Track Skelton of CTP-1 can commence only on 05 March 2016 as against
: -co Tt)

—


100

02 January 2015 as planned in CCP, when status as on 31 August 2016

was considered.

408. The Claimant arranged 2 locomotive along with 45nos of BLC wagons
to commence the Track linking from September 2015 on as is available
basis. The second set of locomotive (2 Nos) and remaining BLC wagons
(45 nos) were mobilised on arrival of second NTC, irrespective of the fact
that attaining a daily progress 15 Tkm /day consistently was

improbable due to ongoing Respondent delays.

409. The Tamping machine was mobilised by Claimant on April-2015. In

other words, prior to the commissioning of NTC (due to delay stated
above) Claimant was ready with all the accessories to meet the

requirements as per CCP.

structures completed up to Formation level) of that section is completed.

411. Claimant could not develop any of the section in CTP-1 as depicted in
CCP due to various Respondent delays. The Exhibit C-131 vide which
the status of work as on 31 August 2016 is submitted is relevant in this

regard.

412. Therefore, with the availability of fronts not matching with the
requirements envisaged in the CCP and inadequacy of work front, Oo
deploying additional NTC would not have led to enhancing any A¢
productivity. Ge O


413.

414.

415.

416.

417.

418.

Exhibit CW-1/45 is relevant.

Notwithstanding the above and inspite of delay events continuing,
acceding to the Engineer/ Employer's instruction, the Claimant has
deployed additional NTC in May 2017 in CTP-2 to complete the Track
linking ahead of the entitled extension of Time for Completion,

Contract requires elimination of level crossings (LC) by way of
construction of RUBs, however Engineer/Respondent required

Claimant to construct more temporary LC’s due non-construction RUB/

ROB by IR.

On 17 March 2016, Claimant was advised to bury the DFC RUB boxes
wherever possible. This was required to allow track skeleton works by

NTC.

The above required Claimant to construct and maintain temporary LCs
and defer the construction of balance portion of DFC RUBs. This
additional requirement was due to delay events attributable to

Respondent.

Based on Chairman Railway Board’s direction, the Respondent decided
to maintain temporary LCs at various locations. Accordingly, the
Engineer started issuing Variation instructions to construct and
maintain temporary LC since 28 May 2018 by letter NKC/1805-88 dated
28 May 2018. Subsequently, Variation orders were issued for 79 number
of temporary LCs at multiple locations. Exhibit C-139 is relevant in this

regard.


102

419. RW-3’s allegation on the poor rate of progress being attributable to the
Claimant is appropriately clarified hereinbefore in my response to RW-

“2.

420. The Claimant has mobilised additional locomotives and rakes to meet
the round the clock operations of NTC, notwithstanding that confi
achievement of 1.5 Km/day was improbable due to unavailabi y of
continuous work fronts.

421. Had the work been allowed to progress as per CCPi.e., had the Claimant
been allowed to commence the Track skeleton work after the Formation
of a section is developed, the rate of progress of 1.5 TKm/day (8 Hr shift)
could have been attained consistently. This is evident from the fact that

up to Jun-2018 Claimant had attained more than 1.5 Tkm/day 212 time.

ork of the whole section with one NTC, which was accepted as CCP.

The Engineer's determinations, its construal in the Statement of Defence
and the Witness statements of the Respondent was basis the requirement
in the CCP. Therefore, the Respondent cannot challenge the CCP at this

point of time etc.

423. Inappropriateness of demand for providing additional NTC alleged by
RW-3 has already been dealt by me hereinabove.

RW-4

424. lam submitting hereinbelow my response to the affidavit “ty RW-4. >

a aa


425.

426.

427.

428.

429.

For the purposes of drafting my response, I have gone through thes”

correspondences maintained by contracts and design teams. In respéét==**

of assertions made by RW-4 pertaining to review of Claimant's
Document/design submittals, I have taken inputs from members of
design team of the Claimant, [hereinafter referred to as “SLT Design
Team”] represented by Mr. Shubhabrata Sadhukhan and Mr. Vasanth
Kumar S, Sr. Engineering Managers who have also interacted with the

Respondent and Engineer from time to time.

I have detailed hereinabove the delay in appointment of Engineer,
which had a cascading impact on design review process and

consequently on the commencement of work at Site.

As per RW-1’s documents and the inputs made available to me by SLT
Design Team, the Respondent was working as Engineer Designate till 23
April 2014, and it did not have the requisite resources/ experienced and
qualified design personnel in place to carry out functions of the

Engineer.

It is evident from the documents on record that there was immense delay
on the part of Engineer designate and / or Respondent (in initial period)
to effectively review and approve design submissions made by the

Claimant.

Immediately after appointment of the Engineer, all the design
submissions made to the Respondent as Engineer Designate which were
pending review for a long period, were returned alleging non-
compliance of some procedural requirements mentioned in the

Employer’s Requirements, solely to prejudice Claimant's entitlements


430.

432.

433.

104

accruing from such non-review of the Respondent acting as the

Engineer.

This fact has also been confirmed as per the inputs given by SLT Design
Team, some of whom were also part of SLT’s design team , who had.
interacted with the team of Engineer Designate and Engineer. , the, ~
delays in review of design / drawing submissions were due to their
inexperience and lack of knowledge in dealing with such time toad
high value design - build contracts which is quite different from. |

conventional Indian Railway projects.

I have also been informed by SLT Design Team interacting with

As is evident from the records, which fact was also confirmed by SLT
Design Team, most of the comments received either from Employer/
Engineer designate and thereafter from the Engineer were piecemeal
and/or the comments were minor or cosmetic in nature. The Engineer’s
comments came in piecemeal manner on the same submissions made by
the Claimant, when the Engineer was required to review issue consent/

NONO within 21 days from the Claimant's design submissions.

As is evident from the records, which fact was also confirmed by SLT
Design Team, in order to ensure the timelines specified in Cl 5.2 of el
is met with, the Engineer kept on returning the design / drawings with G , i:

some superfluous and indifferent comments on multiple ageas


Engineer alleged the Claimant's non-compliance with the Employei
Requirements / ill quality submissions as the cause for such piecefi

review of design documents.

434, Based on inputs given by SLT Design Team, I state the Engineer's

indecisiveness and lack of comprehending Claimant's clarifications was

vA the main cause of design delay.
A (a) | Onsome occasions, the comments which could have been given at

first review itself were provided at later revisions.

(b) In order to break the deadlock and to expedite the approval of
design submissions, the Claimant on numerous occasions agreed
to incorporate some of the non-essential comments of by the
Engineer in the subsequent revisions.

(c) Further, in some instances, the comments made by the Engineer
were not only beyond the Contractual requirements but also were
unwarranted and impractical.

(d) |The Claimant's initial contentions for such kind of comments were
ultimately accepted by the Engineer after much delayed
persuasion.

(e) The Claimant’s design submissions were in compliance to the
Employer’s Requirements, however, in several cases the Engineer
failed to take holistic review of submitted designs and continued
to issue unnecessary comments. This in effect delayed the

execution work at Site.

435. In this regard, SLT Design Team, has prepared a list of few such

instances, along with relevant communications have been annexed

herewith as Exhibit CW-1/48 (Colly).

ATTESTED

SZ. Y PUBLI


436.

438.

106

This Contract, a high value time bound project to be eonniplistedl adhering
to 5 Interim Milestones and also with a requirement to complete
Technical Design within 38 weeks of commencement as per
Coordination and Key Milestone. Contract also provide that the
Engineer’s consent / NONO to Claimant's design document will be
obtained within 21 days of its submission. Claimant, therefore, reckéned
that with the assistance of internationally acclaimed design consultants
like SMEC and SYSTRA could develop the designs in accordant Ath :
the Employer’s Requirements. Pursuant to the above, ane We
appointment of the Engineer of international repute is in the
consideration of the Employer. The Claimant considered that the
Respondent will ensure that the Technical Design is completed within

38 weeks of commencement.

As per the inputs given by SLT Design Team, which is also evident from
the some of the insignificant comments that such comments were given
close to end of 21 days review period, only with a view to keep the
documents approval pending so that they get further time and then

fresh comments were given in subsequent revision.

The Engineer consent / NONO to Claimant’s design documents were
delayed beyond the review period stated in the Contract with a result of
the commencement of construction of the permanent works were
delayed. Duly considering the impact of this delay event accrued upto
31 August 2016, the Claimant has sought extension of time for
completion. In the assessment of extension of time for completion, the
Engineer has considered the over review period as the Claimant's
entitlement. The Engineer’s assessment of EOT being inappropriate, the

Claimant sought a review. The Claimant rely on Exhibit - C-17.


\e\
439. Based on the inputs and correspondence made available to me b

aT S
Design team, the contentions of RW-4 in the Exhibit R31 Ee
inappropriate. Relevant Correspondences provided by the SLT Design

team is annexed and marked as Exhibit CW-1/49.

I recall the many correspondences and other documents in relation to
delay events exchanged between Claimant, Engineer and Respondent
are annexed and marked as Exhibit CW-1/50.

441. No delay was caused by Claimant which led to delay in completion of
MS3. In this regard, I am also relying on documents/ analysis annexed
and marked as Exhibit C-132, Exhibit C-133, Exhibit C-136 and Exhibit
C-137

VERIFICATION:

I, the Deponent above-named, do hereby solemnly verify that the contents of
paragraph 1 to 441 of my affidavit are true and correct to my knowledge and
based on records of Larsen & Toubro Limited. No part of it is false and nothing

material has been concealed therefrom.

VERIFIED AT JAIPUR ON THIS Ou DAY OF AUGUST 2023

arified PY



